 [ Music ] Hello, developers. What a great venue. This is really great. Thanks for coming today. It's been a long day, but we've got some really great stuff for you. So I want to welcome you to the 15th Apple Design Award Ceremony. And we've got a ton of great winners this evening. And we'd like to, of course, recognize their great work. The Apple Design Awards are all about recognizing great work by people in this community. And this is the moment when many of you -- well, many of you -- some of you get to take home one of the Apple Design Award Trophies, which everyone wants one. And so we'll see who gets one tonight. But to start things off, I just want to set a little bit of context for the apps that are going to win tonight. The App Store opened eight years ago. In fact, next month it'll be exactly eight years old. And it was on July 10th of 2008. And in those eight years, apps took off. Right? They've taken off. And today, we heard 2 million apps on the App Store. But if we just go back for a moment to those first days, it was pretty crazy. I mean, it all started off with the iPhone, right? And we all remember the first TV ads. They were 30-second slots. And in those 30-second slots, you had five or six apps that were featured. And so each app had five seconds to audition with you, the customer -- with you, the audience. And to make an impression in five seconds is a pretty big deal. But what happened in those ads was people would watch the ads and they would stop everything that they were doing and they would pay attention to the app that was being shown. And within five seconds, they would have decided whether it mattered to them and if they were going to go and download it or buy it. And I think that's pretty impressive. And those apps -- basically, it was those TV ads and those apps that created the phrase, "There's an app for that." And that phrase was born. And it was during that time way early on that we saw enormous creativity. I mean, we didn't have this thing before. iPhone was out. We had this SDK. We didn't have that before. And we saw enormous creativity. We saw great games, really useful and very valuable utilities, some pretty incredible augmented reality, and lots of other great stuff, much of which was really groundbreaking. And then, two years later, the iPad was introduced. And it was introduced not far from here at the Yerba Buena Center of the Arts. And I remember that day. It was an incredible day. But when the iPad arrived in 2010, it brought a whole new wave of apps. And these were apps that stopped us in our tracks. I mean these were apps that, when we first saw them, they caused us to pause and to be amazed at what could be done on this device. And then we had universal apps coming and bringing functionality from iPad back to iPhone, and the experience of all of the apps got better. And all of these apps early on changed the way that we taught. They changed the way that people learned with iPad. They changed the way that we shared, that we connected, that we worked, and that we spent our day getting things done. These were transformational apps. And then more recently, Apple Watch was introduced, and Apple TV. And with each of these, we saw a new wave of apps coming. And so now, as you've heard several times today, we've got four platforms for you. And this is amazing. I mean, for me, being at Apple 16 years, I remember when it was just the Mac and there was some great work going on. And then everything took off, and now the Mac is part of that whole ecosystem. And there's a tremendous opportunity for you with these four platforms. And we're starting to see some really great work from developers on these four platforms, and a few of those will be honored here tonight. Now, tonight's winners have created apps that are, once again, that set a benchmark for excellence. And they set a benchmark for excellence in usability, excellence in design, excellent innovation, and excellence in technology adoption. And if you've been part of the Apple Design Awards before or ever heard me speak, you know that that's not all there is to a great app. There's even more that we look for in winning apps. We're always looking for whether the app is compelling and leaves a great first impression. We're always looking for whether an app is engaging, meaning it draws you in and keeps you there, and then gets you coming back again and again. That's a big challenge for apps. We look for apps that are enabling, that allow you to do things you could never do before. We're looking for state-of-the-art apps of course. We're looking for accessible apps. We're looking for localized apps. Because accessible and localized apps mean that those apps are available to an even wider audience than they were prior to being accessible and localized. And so there's a lot of stuff that we look for in winning apps, and these are just some of the things that we watch for in winning apps. So let's get started. Let's start with apps that were written by students. So you've heard today that we had 350 scholarship winners this year at WWDC, which is a record number. And these folks, these students, had to submit an app. As part of the scholarship process, they had to submit an app that was either written explicitly for the scholarship selection process, or they could just tell us about an app that they had already developed and put on -- that was already on the App Store. And we looked through all these apps and we found some pretty cool stuff. So tonight we want to award two student winners. And the first is Linum by Joaquin Vila from Mexico. Thanks so much. You're welcome. [ Music ] All right, so Joaquin started developing this app after he had applied for a job at a local game developer, and that hadn't worked out. And he decided after that that, like, he could just do this on his own. He didn't need to work for no other developer. So he decided to write his own app, get it on the App Store. And I'd like to show you this app. And before I do, I just wanted to say Joaquin was a 2015 Scholarship Winner last year at WWDC, so probably learned a lot about what you used in the app last year. And he's also super active in the local developer community in many of the meetups in his hometown. All right, so I'm just going to show you this on this screen. So what you're seeing here is Linum is a puzzle game where the goal is to complete levels in the fewest moves possible. And what you're trying to do is take these line nodes and lines and pivot them around to connect with nodes to solve the puzzles. And as the number of nodes increases, complex puzzles challenge even the best players. And the beauty of Linum is its simplicity. It's got a clean UI and a simple set of rules. And with a smart implementation of touch and approachable progression system, terrific overall presentation and use of Apple technologies, Linum is without doubt an Apple Design Award Winner for a student. So, congratulations. All right. And our second student winner tonight is Dividr by Josh Deichmann, Patrick Pistor, and Erik Lydick. Congratulations. [ Music ] So I guess just one of you are here today, yeah? Yeah. No problem. There's three guys. So all three of these guys, one of whom is here, are students at the Rochester Institute of Technology in Northern New York State. And at RIT, they went to an iOS development challenge earlier this year. And it was at that event that they started working on this game. And Josh is the programmer. Is it Josh? Yeah. Yeah, Josh is the programmer. Patrick is the designer. And Erik is the guy who created the soundtrack for the game but also kind of kept you guys on track, you know, in terms of development. So let me just show you this game for a minute. So Dividr is this fun and addicting 2D arcade game. And it makes use of 3D touch of variant pressure to move the control squares in and out depending on the pressure that you apply to the screen. So the more pressure you apply, the further out they go. The lighter on you are, the closer in they go. And you're basically avoiding these obstacles on screen. It's simple and compelling, written entirely in Swift, supports Game Center. And it was, without a doubt, a great choice for an Apple Design Award this evening. Congratulations. This side. All right. So those are our 2 winning apps developed by students. Pretty great stuff. And there were lots more. But, you know, we've got to draw the line somewhere. Not everybody can win. All right, now let's move on to your main winners tonight. We have 10 winners this year, and 10 winners which are all super compelling. They're all incredibly well-designed. They're all super state-of-the-art. And they're all optimized for the devices that they were created for and for the use cases that customers will face with them. And so let's begin. The first Apple Design Award Winner for 2016 is Frame.io by Frame.io, Inc. from New York City. [ Music ] Congratulations. Great job, guys. Great to meet you. [ Music ] All right, so Frame.io is a video collaboration platform for teens working together on film or video. And it lets these teens easily share files, give feedback, review clips, approve media, and do a whole ton of stuff in that creative pro workflow. And it turns out that it's really hard to do this right. And Frame.io nails it by filling a big gap in the creator pro workflow by solving this complicated task. And to give you a better idea of how this app works, I'd like to ask Michael to demo it to us now. Thank you, John. So this is a typical project in Frame.io. Now it's really media-centric, so you can see all the media in the lower half of the view. Now -- whoops. So basically what they've done here is they've made a UICollectionViewFlowLayout with UIKit dynamics, and that really makes this view come alive. Now at the top, you can see all the project participants. Now this is a really fun and interactive animation. And that's really cool, and I can do it slow. There we go. And that's using core animation with custom curves and key frames. That opens up to a table list view where I can swipe to remove someone from a project or leave the project myself. Now the media player is really key to Frame.io. And so what they've done here is they've implemented 3D touch, and they've done this in a number of different ways. The first one is a feature they call Touch Scrub. So on this clip of this mountain -- all I'm going to do is scrub across this clip very lightly. And you can see I get an overview of the clip really quickly. Now the other thing that they've done is they've gone deeper and implemented peak and pop. So on this clip, I'm going to push gently. That peaks in. And now watch this. When I pop, it goes to the same frame into a new view -- the Comment View. Pretty cool stuff. Now the Comment View is where all the project participants come in and actually collaborate. All these comments are time-synchronized. So when I touch something, it actually goes to the frame where the comment was made. You'll also notice that all the commenter's pictures turn to a Play button. So for example, here you can see that Play button. If I touch the Play button, it's a feature that they call Comment Replay where it will start playing two seconds before and two seconds after. And then where the comment is, the comment flashes and the phone will vibrate. One more time. And here's the comment. That's where it is. So I'm going to let this video play out just a little bit because I know that there's something wrong in here -- and there's a lion in my surf video. You know, like, really? So I'm going to put my comment in, but I'm also going to go ahead and annotate and send that comment along. So this app is incredible. It's written entirely in Swift. It's using the latest tools. It's using multiple storyboards, storyboard references, auto layout, size classes. Did I mention it was done in Swift? Did I mention that this is their first iOS app? This is a really great app. Congratulations to the team. Back to you, John. Yeah, so Frame.io is a great app. We love this app. Hitting the wrong button here, that's why we're messing up here. Apologies. We love this app. Congratulations, guys. You've solved a really big problem in a very elegant way. All right, our second winner tonight is a game. And it is Chameleon Run by Jan Ilavsky and published by Noodlecake Studios from Canada. Thank you. [ Music ] It's just great to watch some of these photos to see people's studios. I mean, we were amazed as we looked through some of the shots from the winners tonight. The places in which you work are super creative. And we couldn't get enough of this game. With a great soundtrack, fun sound effects, super intuitive and natural controls and great performance, Chameleon Run is an Apple Design Award Winner that you are not going to want to put down. And to show you this game, I'd like to ask Allan and Mark. Great. So thank you, John. Hello, everyone. Chameleon Run is a super fast-paced and very challenging auto-runner with a twist that's based on color. And it has a really stunning visual presentation which we'd like to show you now. My colleague, Mark, is joining us. He's going to play while I tell you about this game. So the objective of Chameleon Run is to make it through the level in the best possible time. And Mark is jumping from platform to platform. But if you notice, when he lands on a platform, sometimes he has to switch the character's color to match the platform he's landing on. And that becomes very challenging as you make your way through this game. OK, so that was a very easy level. Let's do it one more time because I want to point out a couple more things on this level, especially the rendering effects. That was something that we really loved about this game. If you take a look at the depth of field with the objects in the background, the shock waves coming off of the character, and also the smoke trails and just the particle effect. We thought that all of that really added something visually to this game. But, OK, so we did very well there. That was an easy level. And now Mark is going to go for something much, much more difficult. Go all the way. All right, here we go. Level 15, The End is Near. And let me tell you a little bit about why we chose this game. So first of all, as I said, we love the visual style and just the vibrancy of the colors in this game. And it was so clear that so much care and iteration went into the construction of the levels and just fine-tuning this content. Then the second thing -- Mark is doing very well. All right. Nice. Do it again. Go for it. So the second thing is the replayability. Yeah, OK, that's me playing now -- most of the time. So the replayability in this game is just phenomenal. Most of these levels have in effect a high road and a low road that you can take. You sort of can go up and down as you're progressing through the level. But the game really encourages you to go back and play the levels over and over again. Maybe the first time through you're going for time. But then it unlocks different objectives to collect all the crystals or to go entirely through the level without switching your color, which imagine how difficult that would be on a level like the one we just saw. And the third thing about this game is that this is a game that is great on your iPhone and iPad, but it is awesome on your Apple TV. We love how this plays with the Siri Remote. That's what Mark is using now. It also plays great with an MFi controller. And it's just one of these games that is just fantastic when you see it on the big screen in your living room. So that's Chameleon Run. It supports Game Center. It's localized in 8 languages, and it's a premium title. Just pay once and play. So, congratulations. Back to you, John. Thanks, Allan. Thanks, Mark. That's Chameleon Run -- a super engaging game that you'll be playing again and again. All right, our next winner is Auxy Music Creation by Auxy from Sweden. [ Music ] Auxy Music Creation is an audio creation app for iPad. And the Auxy team realized that electronic music was going mainstream, and so they sat down and started to develop this app that allowed electronic fans to create some of their own tracks on an iOS device. And this is a super compelling app with a clean minimalist style. And honestly inside of this app, it's almost impossible to create something that doesn't sound great. No matter what you tap on, you get great results. So I'd like to ask Michael again to show us this app. Great. Thank you, John. So the first thing that we really loved about Auxy was the really subtle and unobtrusive onboarding. Now I'm not locked out from the app. I can go anywhere I want, but we'll follow the trail and see where it leads us. So I'll double-tap to start creating my first loops and drums. I'll start with some bass drum. That's great. So now it told me that I can move some notes around by dragging, which is really handy because I just missed that one. So we'll do some high hat. And notice how quick and how performant the UI is. It's really cool. OK, I'm going to add some tom-toms on the off beats. That actually sounds more like a kettle drum than a tom-tom, and that's great because the onboarding is telling me how to change my kit. So let's see if I can find something a little hipper. Not that. Not that. 70's disco -- that's what I'm looking for. OK. So now what do we need for 70's disco? We need some disco base, right? So let's add another loop. Great. So the UI is really responsive because they built on top of UIKit, and that is built on top of Metal. They also went ahead and implemented Grand Central Dispatch. That really helps with the performance. I'm going to add one more loop here. [ Music ] Now I can do a lot with this. But what I'm going to do is I'm going to open up something that I already have created. And then now we can hear how these guys have gone ahead and created a really, really powerful synth engine on the iPad. So let's listen to the drums. OK, the drums really -- they have a lot of character. There's a nice reverb tail in there. Let's add some bass. It's a really fat bass. Let's add some synth. Really rich, analog-sounding synth. I'm going to play around with this for a little while. [ Music ] That's not bad. I'm going to take the Doodle Patch and I'm going to mess around with it a little bit. I'm going to bring up my synth controls and I'm going to change the character of my synth and make it more aggressive. So we're going to turn down our attack and we're going to open up the filter. Nice and aggressive -- that's what I was looking for. I'm going to use Multi-Touch to bring it on home. [ Music ] Seriously, I could do this all night long. Now this is really great stuff. All these guys. The thing that we loved that we loved about Auxy is they took Apple technology and they implemented it in such a way that customers could have fun and they could be creative without that technology getting in the way. Really great stuff. Love this app. Congratulations. Back to you, John. That's pretty cool. Thank you. I was just talking for a moment here how big the team is, and it's three people that created this. So here's an app -- Auxy Music Creation. More than 4,000 5-star reviews on the App Store, and it's exclusive to iPad. All right, our fourth winner is an app that helps you to form good habits. Congratulations to Streaks by Zervaas Enterprises from Australia. [ Music ] Good job. Thank you. Yeah. [ Music ] So, Streaks is a to-do list that helps you form good habits and change behavior. And Streaks has a simple and straightforward UI, and it's got an excellent implementation on Apple Watch -- probably the best Apple Watch app available today. And we'd like to show you Streaks right now. TC? Thanks, John. So trying to form good habits is difficult. The last thing you want is an app that is complicated to set up, uninspiring to use, and pretty much itself a reason for procrastination. So here are five of the possible six tasks that I've set up for myself. And you can see on the top right "Practice cello". So I miss playing the cello professionally, but I just haven't been practicing. I'm using Streaks to help get me back to it, to help me remember to practice regularly because I have a concert coming up. And I've been saying that for a few years now. So to see how I've been doing, I can just tap on the Task icon for the calendar view here. I can also peak and pop onto it. And you can see June was pretty good. But if I was to reveal to you May -- not so good. So the crosses is where, for whatever reason, I've decided not to practice. Coming back here and tapping again, this is a summary of how I've done. And you can see that I'm currently on a streak of 15 days. Now we're back here. To mark a task complete, all I do is to tap and hold. And there you go. It's like I've just finished practicing for today. Now when I was outside earlier, I was reading the iOS 10 API disk documentation. So I'm going to go and check "Read the book" as complete as well. Now Streaks is also on Apple Watch. And it has Watch complications right onto your Watch face, including one that is really cleverly designed. It's based on a dotted design which looks just like the iPhone app so that you can tell from just looking at how the dots are arranged and which ones are lit how you're doing with your task for that day. Streaks uses Watch connectivity extensively, so my Apple Watch and iPhone are always in sync. Now Streaks is also considerate, and I'll show you what I mean, especially in the way it handles notifications. For instance, when it comes to automatic time and my cat, Auzuki, Streaks knows that I play with her every day when I come home from work immediately, otherwise she gets quite cranky. And nobody wants a cranky cat. So it knows to remind me at the same time each day but 30 minutes in advance of that so that I can continue that streak and have a happy cat. All right? And it also looks at HealthKit to try and figure out when it is I typically go to bed so that it doesn't send me a reminder too late into my day. For when things are going really well, you get encouragement as well. And in addition to that, Streaks will suggest perhaps a higher goal so that you achieve an overall greater result. Now, conversely, if you've been missing a few tasks, it will suggest an easier-to-achieve goal so you don't end up giving up. OK, so Streaks is a 5-star rated app. It's exclusive to iOS and Watch, and it was developed using Swift. Bad habits form automatically. Streaks helps us come up with good ones. I'm more confident than ever that I'll be playing my cello soon in a concert, or to read many books, and have a really happy cat. Thank you. So that's Streaks. We picked this app as a winner for its simplicity, the great visual design, and the excellent implementation on Apple Watch. They're localized into 25 languages and they're exclusive to iPhone, Apple Watch, and Apple TV as TC just mentioned. All right, our next winner is, again, a game. Lara Croft by Square Enix. [ Music ] So Lara Croft Go captures the spirit of this classic franchise, and then reimagines it into this classy new app with an innovative new look and turns it into this great adventure game. This is a great example of a large developer working with a small studio within their organization to give them the task of creating something that's really well-executed down to the smallest detail. These guys have done a tremendous job with this huge franchise. These folks are based out of Montreal, Canada. Right? And it's great -- you've done a tremendous job. Now to show you this game, I'd like to ask Allan to give a demo. Great. Thank you, John. So Lara Croft Go is a turn-based puzzle adventure game that's set in the ruins of an ancient civilization. And what we loved about this game is how it took so many of the elements of the Lara Croft franchise -- things like the archeological exploration, and the adventure, and solving puzzles and avoiding traps, and Lara herself -- and reimagined all those things into a puzzle game that's perfect for mobile and beautifully designed for touch. So I'd like to show you it here. I'm coming into a level here that's onboarding me into a new game mechanic that has to do with these rolling boulders. But actually, before I even do that, just take this in for a moment. I mean, check out the stylized rendering. I hope you can all hear the ambient soundtrack here. It's just beautiful. And we really love things like the attention to detail in the levels. And it has a really unobtrusive UI. There's no virtual joypad here to move Lara around. To move Lara to the next space, I just swipe and she moves. But, OK, so let's start looking through this level here. Obviously there's this boulder, and I have a feeling that if I step on the trap -- yeah. OK. So, mental note, don't step under falling boulders. But we can put that knowledge to work a little bit later. Isn't it cool how she kind of hangs off the ledge there? All right, but I'm going forward a little further here. Here's another one. I'm going to get it going, but then I'll take a step back and let it roll past me. OK, so I'm safe. And I come down now into the next part of the stage. All right. So now in this part, I'm going to pick up the spear. But I'm not going to use that yet. What I'm going to do -- this lizard has woken up and I'm going to step back and let him step on the trap. Bam! OK, no more lizard. So now let's go forward. And this next one wakes up. OK, now the game mechanic here is that as I move once space, the lizard will move one space. And it'll follow me through whatever path I take. So I'm going to climb up the wall here and go a particular way to get him right where I want him. Bam! It never gets old. All right. And I'm going to dispatch the snake. Great. And that finishes out this particular stage of this level. And, really, this is just a taste of this game. There's over a hundred of these different scenes with incredible detail. And it's just hats off to you guys for this creation. It's really beautiful. The game supports Game Center and iCloud to synchronize its progress across all of your devices. It's localized in 11 different languages. And it's a premium title with a couple of in-app purchases -- one to provide you solutions to puzzles if you get stuck, and the other to customize the character. So, again, hats off to you guys. Congratulations. So that's Lara Croft Go. It's tuned for iOS and has more than 5,000 5-star ratings on the App Store. Tremendous work. All right, our next winner is 3D4Medical Complete Anatomy from Ireland. Congrats. Thank you. Great job. [ Music ] This is a groundbreaking 3D anatomical platform for medical students, medical professionals, and lifelong learners. And we love this app for how it's disrupting traditional ways of teaching anatomy. For example, medical professionals will use this app as a tool to help patients understand what's going on with an injury or an upcoming procedure. And that understanding actually helps people heal better and more quickly. And I'd like to ask my colleague, Chris, to show this to you now. This was an app that completely blew us away with its attention to detail, graphics and animations, and most importantly what it allowed users to do. We love the iconography throughout that. Check out along the bottom menu. The icons are consistent and representative of what they control. I'm going to turn some of these layers on so you can get an idea of what's in here. The app has over 6,200 structures, so it's deep without being overwhelming. The content is progressively displayed as you need it. Just a tremendous amount of content. But I'm going to turn these layers off for now and move into the bone. Notice the incredible shading and textures. They're the result of high-resolution scans and artist interpretations. The team has a skeleton on staff named Hank, a cadaver, and a medical team that they reference to get things just right. We love it when a team goes that extra mile to make things particularly beautiful. If at any point in the app you see something that's interesting, you can just tap on it to learn a bit more. Are there any Warriors fans in the audience? [ Cheering ] This is the ligament that nearly cost the Warriors their season when Steph went out with that knee injury a couple weeks back. Now I'm going to turn on some muscle so we can see some movement. I can select on a muscle group and I can see how that works. I can adjust this motion in real time, rotate, and see things in 3D. One of the reasons we chose this app is because it leveraged the performance of iPad Pro. With the new CPU and GPU, it allowed double the graphics resolution of previous versions. Again, check out the texture on that muscle. Just incredibly realistic. Now we could spend hours just exploring content in this app, but 3D4Medical wanted to allow users to create and share content. So at any point in the app, I can start recording. So I'm going to do that now. So I'm now recording audio and what's on the screen. I can use this -- if I was a teacher, I could create a lesson for a student. Or if I was a physician, I could record a common procedure to share with my patients. For the baseball fans, what I'm doing here is I'm using Apple Pencil to pull back the layers of the muscle to show the ligaments that were repaired during Tommy John's surgery. Imagine a physician sharing something like this with a patient before a procedure. I can then save the recording for my own use. Or if I choose, I can share it with the 3D4Medical Community. We love it when a developer tackles a unique problem in a new way. This is a team that looked at human anatomy and what they could do with iPad and created a world-class education tool. Congratulations, guys. Back to you, John. 3D4Medical Complete Anatomy. We picked this out for its incredible performance, its high-fidelity models, the attention to detail, and the uncluttered UI. It's exclusive to iPad Pro right now, but it's coming to Mac this summer. And it's unbelievable. All right, our seventh winner is really beautiful. It is INKS by State of Play Games from London. Congratulations. Thank you. [ Music ] So INKS is from the makers of Lumino City based in the UK. And after extensive research at their local pub, they decided to create a new generation of pinball. And if you think about it, INKS. is sort of a cross between paintball and pinball with an artistic flare. And you've got to see this. So for the demo, I decided I'd ask Mike, the evangelism resident pinball expert, to show this to you now. Thanks, John. So right from the Welcome Screen, you get to enjoy the beautifully stunning and highly realistic INKS. The way they blend together the colors here are really gorgeous. Now as I hit the pinball through, you can see how it traces those colors one into the other and draws it onto the paper. It's really pretty awesome. All right, let's play a game. Now INKS features five different levels, each of which has 24 different boards, each with its own set of obstacles, challenges, and increasing complexity. As John said, I'm kind of a pinball wizard. So I'll start with one of the more advanced ones, but not so advanced that you guys feel bad about your pinball skills. Now check out each of these boards. They're each custom designed, obviously handcrafted with a lot of thought and care. They're their own beautiful compositions on their own before you even start to play. And check out the gold, and silver, and bronze pinballs. These show you how well you've done in each of these levels. Now bronze is not good enough, so let me show you guys how it's done. There must be a problem with this iPad. All right, let me redeem myself. Oh, man. OK, this was a lot easier in rehearsals when I didn't have 5,000 people watching. All right, so I'm going to go to one of the easier levels. And just to show you guys this, too, INKS offers hours of gameplay for more beginner players -- of which I am not. All right, let's try this. Bam! That's how I do! All right. So what I want to show you guys is some of the levels that really demonstrate the highly realistic INKS that I was talking about earlier. So there's that big color swatch in the center. And each time you hit one, it explodes and reacts to force and angle in its own unique way. And check out how the colors continue to blend into each other and darken as they go. The team spent a lot of time studying water colors, the physics of it, the dynamics, how it dries into the paper and blends. It's really gorgeous. And I'll show you just one more level here that just shows off how, even though this is a completely new take on pinball, they still respected a lot of the sound effects, and the feel of the bumpers, and habitrails, and drop targets, and the flippers. I mean, it's really, really amazing. And I'm probably not going to have time to finish this one. I'll just let it go down the drain there. But I think this really demonstrates how you can take a traditional game mechanic and with enough thought, attention to detail and care, create something which is completely fresh and unique. Brilliant job. Thanks. Back to you. Thanks, Mike. So it's obvious that we picked this game as a winner tonight because it's really well-designed. It's rich and unique. It's available in five languages, and it's exclusive to iOS. And it's also really interesting to note that a lot of the conceptualization and the artistry was done on an iPad Pro with Apple Pencil by the team. So they used some other tools, too, to come up with this. So that's INKS. Our eighth winner today -- a fitness app -- is Zova Personal Trainer by ZOVA Group from Australia. Congrats, guys. Congratulations. Good job. Well done. Good job. Thanks. [ Music ] So Zova is a fitness training app that helps people stay active using motivation and great HD videos that look awesome on Apple TV. And we loved it because it's thoughtful, and in so many ways they took little things and considered them deeply. And it's really great on Apple TV. In fact, we like this app so much that we took it with us on the roadshow this fall -- the Apple TV Tech Talks -- and we used it as one of the reference apps in our design sessions. And we'd like to show it to you now. So, TC? Thanks again, John. Zova is a fitness app that provides short, achievable, daily exercises. Now this team here they've been early adopters of Apple technologies from day 1 with their initial release of the app and HealthKit support, to then Apple Watch support, and most recently Apple TV support. But they don't just do it gratuitously. They only deliver on unique experiences conducive to each platform that feels natural as if it always meant to be that. And today, we'd like to talk about the Apple TV app. So with Apple TV, they didn't just upsize the content. They took the Apple TV concept to heart and thought about the whole medium of TV. TV is a major part of our lives. It's when we gather together to enjoy content and experiences. Now workout apps don't have to be lonesome activities anymore. With the communal experiences afforded by Apple TV, Zova had to think about the kind of content that they can create. This collection here called Move Together is where you team up with your friend and actually workout together and get fit together. But Zova didn't just stop at rethinking content. They also wanted to take full advantage of the Siri Remote. As you will see me navigating through this, it is, as you would expect, very easy to find content. And focusing on elements is easy, too. Let's go into this workout here. So, here, you get a brief description of what this workout is about. And also, if you have a look at the bottom, these are video previews of exactly what the exercises entail. That way, you know what you're really in for. But where the implementation of Siri Remote really comes into its own is when you're actually inside of a workout. So let's try one of these. Each workout starts with a preview, so you're reminded of exactly what the exercise is. Now I've just pressed the Pause button, and it responds as you would expect because you will get interrupted when you're trying to exercise. That's just the way it is. When you resume the pause, it will give you a countdown so that you can actually ready yourself instead of just jumping straight into it. But where it gets really interesting is I'm now pressing and holding onto the Pause button, and instead I'm provided with a freeze frame so that I can look more closely at the details on the screen -- perhaps the exact posture of the instructor. Now this is possible and is beyond the standard controls because Zova has implemented a custom AVPlayerLayer. Similarly, if I was to swipe left, I can restart an exercise very quickly. Or, if I was to swipe to the right, you can see I can easily skip. Now you may have noticed references earlier to Apple Watch. This is really neat. What's happening here is it's taking my heartrate from my Watch. And through HealthKit and my iPhone, it is overlaying that onto the live video stream here. So that's my heartrate you're looking at. Let's move along then. At the end of each workout, you have an opportunity to, I guess, log your feedback as to how you've done. And this is a really fun use of the Siri Remote. You can either give it a big thumbs-up for it has gone well, or if it's gone less well -- and in my case, I tend to quiver my lips a little, too. So there you go. We really like Zova's reimagination of content for the lounge and living room, and the extensive use of the features of the Apple Siri Remote so that you have a true and unique Apple TV experience in your lounge room. Built using Swift, Zova is exclusive to iOS, Watch OS, and Apple TV. Congratulations to the team at ZOVA. And back to you, John. All right, that's Zova. The next winner this afternoon is Ulysses by the Soulmen from Germany. [ Music ] So Ulysses is a powerful text editor for writers of all kinds -- journalists, bloggers, you name it. And it's designed specifically to cover all aspects of the writing process. And we picked it as a winner because it's a tool that's optimized for writing without distraction. The entire UI of the operating system goes away and you're just working with your words. And the execution of this app is so great. It allows you to work on any of our devices. You can choose to start on the Mac, then move to iPad, then move to iPhone, and move back. And you get that distraction-free experience on any of those devices. And to show this app to you, I'd like to turn it over to Michael. Thank you, John. So Ulysses is a focused and distraction-free writing environment. It has the power of classic word processers with flexible organization and management tools. Now it's a super clean writing experience and it has features to help you through the task. So the first thing, for example, is I can highlight the current line. That should look familiar. We can also show paragraph numbers. Now Ulysses is based on Markdown. And what Markdown is -- it's a markup language that uses plain text and special characters to set semantics. So, for example, here you can see that in this copy of the Apple TV human interface guidelines that navigation has two hash marks, and that is a second-level header. By the way, this tear-off menu is from their use of AppKit. Now Ulysses also presents images and URLs in a user-friendly and vey distraction-free way. Now Ulysses is really customizable. For me, for example, I like working at night. I get creative after dark, so I like Dark Mode. If Dark Mode doesn't work for you, there are customizable themes, or you can download themes from the Ulysses User Community. Now Markdown is an open standard, so they also ship with a number of different markdown definitions, or you can create your own. Both custom markdown definitions and custom themes are all synchronized using iCloud. OK. Now this is a modern, single-window, multicolumn app. So if you take a look all the way on the left side, that's my library column. And in my library column, that's where I manage all of my writing. For example, here I have a group of public domain books. I also have filters. Now a filter is sort of a persistent search. So here, for example, I'm searching for the word "Ishmael" or the name "Ishmael". And all of the occurrences come up, most of them from the book "Moby Dick". And I can also change the icon to something a little bit more appropriate. I can also do ad hoc searches. So, for example, I know that there is a single occurrence of the word "galleon" in all of these books. And if I take a look at the search base using the statistics feature, I can see that I just searched through about 1.3 million words, most of those written by James Joyce. And that's thanks to their implementation of Spotlight and Grand Central Dispatch. Okie dokie. So let's go back here. Let's kill this. Let's go back to our Apple TV HIG. All right. Now Ulysses is delivery-agnostic, so it doesn't matter where you're going to deliver from. You can preview in a number of different formats powered by TextKit, PDFKit. It can even publish directly to Medium. But one of the things that they've done is they've allowed you to make your own CSS files to style the preview exactly the way you need it. So, for example, here I have an HTML preview and I happen to have an Apple CSS. And I can apply that to my preview, like so. And you can see how the Apple TV HIG would look on an Apple website. All right. Now as John mentioned, Ulysses is available on OS X and iOS, eventually Mac OS I hope. It implements Handoff. It's available in 7 languages. We love this app. We use this app at Apple. We're so happy and so proud that you guys have created this and won an ADA. So, congratulations. Back to you, John. So, as Michael said -- thank you, Michael. As Michael said, Ulysses is a great example of an app that takes advantage of iOS and OS X, Handoff, iCloud and more to deliver an optimized experience on each of these platforms. We talked about this new opportunity of four platforms, and this is an app that does a great job of heading in that direction. Congratulations. All right, our last winner today is an app that is incredibly state-of-the-art and incredibly accessible. It is djay Pro by Algoriddim from Germany. You've been here before. You've been here before, sir. Good. Congratulations. [ Music ] All right, so djay Pro is one of the first professional-grade apps to fully leverage the audio and video capabilities of the new iPad Pro. And these guys already won an Apple Design Award in 2011, but they have done so much since then and they continue to innovate. And they have consistently stayed in lockstep with us every time we released a new OS, every time there's some new technology, and every time there's a new device to support. Really impressive. And we love this app because it sets new benchmarks for performance, for features, for use of Apple technology, for multi-device support, and for accessibility. And I'd like to ask Ryan to show the app off now. Hey. Thanks, John. My name is Ryan Dour. I'm an engineer on the Accessibility Team here at Apple, but I'm also a deejay. All of my life, I've been visually impaired. But during high school and college, I lost most of my remaining usable vision. I've always deejayed with CD players and mixers because they offer a hands-on tactile experience. However, with the rise of digital deejaying, I was feeling pretty left out. About a year ago, I got my hands on djay Pro for the Mac and this external deejay controller and I got back into it, and it's been a great time since. However, djay Pro for iPad takes accessible deejaying to a whole new level, and I'd love to show it to you now. So, over here, I have an iPad Pro running djay Pro and this external mixer. I'm going to go ahead and throw on my headphones now. So, here's the thing that's interesting. The external deejay controller acts as an extension of the onscreen UI. And so I can use it to really create kind of a pretty cool performance. Also, you're probably wondering what of this can I see. Not much. I pretty much can see the light coming from the screen and some of the, you know, colorful lights coming from the deejay controller, but that's about it. So knowing that, we're going to use VoiceOver to control this interface. Let's go ahead and get the music started. OK, so the first thing I'd like to point out is that I have access to information I've never had before. For example, the time. How much time is left on this track? Let's find out. That's perfect. OK. So I'm the deejay, I'm supposed to keep the music going and now I have that kind of information. I also can use these tempo sliders. For example, if I touch it right now -- hold on a second. So we hear it's at a standard playback speed. But if I slow it down using the deejay controller and I touch it again, we can hear exactly how far I slowed that track down. That's really cool. I also can use these multidimensional effects pads. For example, if I touch it the first time -- but the second time. Really cool stuff, right? So between these effects pads, this external controller and all this accessible UI, I can do a pretty cool performance. So I'd like to go ahead and ask the stage here to please take VoiceOver off of the PA systems -- that it's only available to me and my headphones. Cool. Thank you very much. And I'm going to mix for you now. Here we go. [ Music ] [ Music ] So that's djay Pro from Algoriddim. Ryan, you're the man. I've got to tell you -- this is an incredible custom user interface. They did not use UIKit with this interface at all. They didn't get any of their accessibility for free. Considering that, their implementation of our accessibility APIs is nothing less than spectacular. So I want to let everybody know, and especially all the visually-impaired deejays out there, this app has really enriched my life. So I absolutely cannot wait to see what the rest of you developers make accessible next! Thank you so much, John! Yeah. Good job. Ryan, you're the man. djay Pro -- a beautiful, fully accessible, super sophisticated, high-performance app built for iOS and OS X. Congratulations, guys. So those are our winners this year -- two great student apps worthy of a Design Award, and 10 other incredible apps. 10 apps that set the standard for this coming year. Each of these apps has something very unique. They entertain in a new way. They allow you to communicate in a new way. They educate in a new way. They solve real problems in a clever or new way. And they open doors for people and enable people to do things they couldn't do before. And all of them are incredibly well-designed and extremely well-executed on all four of our platforms. Now winners today get to take home, as you've seen, the Apple Design Award Trophy. When you tap it, it lights up just like the cover of your laptop. It's very cool. Go check it out from one of the winners later on. So you get the coveted Apple Design Award Trophy, as well as a prize package including one of almost everything that we make -- fully loaded. And you get some prominent featuring on the App Store beginning tonight. All right, we wanted to wrap up this day with this fun event. It's always fun for me to do the Design Awards, to be involved with this, to know so many of you and to see your apps come along and then some of them to arrive on stage. It's always fun to give out these awards. But before we wrap up tonight, we just wanted to tell you about something else that we've been working on that's fun. And it's a little bit apart from the Design Awards that we've given out so far, but it's a great way to end our day. And it does tie into building something that's fun, and unique, and compelling. So to talk about that, I'd like to invite Ben Wolstenholme, Cofounder and CEO of Madefire, a developer of iOS and TV OS apps, to join me here on stage. Ben? Thanks, John. Great to be here. So Madefire is all about storytelling -- and in particular, comics. We love comics because they're such a powerful storytelling format. People learn to read through comics. People escape into other worlds through comics. Most of all, comics are words and pictures perfect for the visual world that we live in. We've been working closely with Apple on something that we'd like to share with you tonight. As you may have seen earlier, Apple today launched new app review guidelines. They're very different to the guidelines that we're all used to, and they're much more approachable. And after speaking with Apple about this new approach, we collaborated to create -- Oh, yes! App Review Guidelines, the Comic Book. OK. Apple has put a lot of thought into reorganizing and simplifying the guidelines into five sections. And this gave us a great opportunity to work with different illustrators and to develop five totally different graphic styles. Each section is a visual story. And we really wanted the visuals to react with the serious content of the guidelines. It's created a pretty wild outcome, and something we hope will engage people around these important topics even if you think you know the guidelines already. It's pretty useful. The comic book will be available for download from the developer's site, alongside the searchable text version. But you will get to take home your printed comic book tonight. Oh, yes, hard to believe. In a world of screens, a big part of what we do at Madefire is enable people to turn their stories into motion books. As you can see, motion books are a reading experience with motion, sound, and depth. And we're thrilled to be working on a motion book version of the app review guidelines. Here's a sneak peek. [ Music ] So, look out for the App Review Guidelines motion book coming soon to an Apple device near you. And you can get your printed comic here tonight. I hope you enjoy the read. Thanks. Thanks, ben. It's pretty fun. A great way to end a fun event with that. So let's wrap up here right now. Congratulations, first of all, to all of you who've done such incredible work over the past months, years, as you worked on these apps that tonight won an award. Hats off to you. You've put in just an enormous amount of work designing and developing these apps, and they've set a new standard for the entire community. And thanks to you all here, as well as folks who are watching online. We've got lots of people dialed in through the WWDC app and through the online stream that we've got from this event. Thank you for joining us from around the world. We look forward to seeing what you're going to create in this coming year, what you're going to create based on things that maybe you saw this evening that inspired you to move to a new level with your app and with your development and with your design, and inspired by the new things that you heard today through the sessions earlier on in this day. So we'd like to close. Just before we close, I'd like to ask the winners to come back on stage. And while they're doing that, I just want to say thank you, and have a great week and good night. 