 [ Music ] Hi, good afternoon. Good afternoon, and welcome to What's New in iTunes Connect. I'm Dave Van Tassell, Engineering Manager here at iTunes Connect. I'm excited to spend some times this afternoon talking to you about what we've been up to and where we're headed. Now iTunes Connect covers the whole lifespan of your app, from uploading the metadata, submitting to App Review, releasing your app onto the App Store, and even tracking to see how well you're doing on the App Store. And so, today we're going to touch on a few of these different pieces of iTunes Connect. We're going to start with all the changes we're making to in-app purchases and also talk a little bit about iTunes Connect for iOS, our mobile companion app to iTunes Connect. We're also going to talk about App Analytics and what's new with App Analytics. And then something completely different and new, which is screenshot simplification, and this is about the rules and requirements about uploading images and app previews for your app. We want to talk a little bit about iMessage apps, what you have to do in iTunes Connect in order to set up and submit your iMessage apps. And then we're going to finish off with the updated guidelines. So let's get started. We're going to talk about in-app purchases, and the first area we're going to talk about are subscriptions. Now when we talk about subscriptions, what we're talking about are autorenewable in-app purchases, and the biggest change we made there is we're opening them up to all categories. So no longer is it only a few categories that can use autorenewables. Everybody's eligible to use them. Now we're also introducing a new feature so that you can price your subscriptions differently in each territory. Instead of selecting one price tier for all the territories, you can select individual price tiers for each territory. And to go along with that, we're actually increasing the number of available price tiers for autorenewables to over 200 different price tiers, and this should really let you pick the right price in the right country for your subscriptions and your subscribers. Another new feature we're adding to the subscriptions is called price preservation. Now this is for your existing subscribers. When you raise the price of a subscription, you can choose if you want them to also pay this new, higher price, or you can let them keep their existing price so when they renew, they will continue to pay their existing price. And the last change we're making is for subscribers who have been with you for over a year. When they renew, they'll get 85 percent of the proceeds, and this is live now. So you no longer have to wait 12 months until works. Anyone who's already been subscribing to your in-app purchase for more than year, when they renew with their next subscription period, you will receive 85 percent of those proceeds. This is a good one. Now there's actually so much to talk about with the changes to subscriptions we've created two sessions that are dedicated just to this. The first is a more technical deep dive and how to actually program a StoreKit, work with it in Swift, check your receipt, and validation. It's a great session. The second one is more about what subscriptions actually are and how to set up all this new information in iTunes Connect. To change the price in different territories and preserve your price, so these are both on Tuesday. If you didn't get a chance to see them, then I highly recommend you check it out. And those are the changes we have for subscriptions. Now this next change is applicable to all in-app purchases, and this is in-app purchase promo codes. In-app purchase promo codes are going to live in iTunes Connect right next to where you get the promo codes for your app versions. So you go to the features tab for your app, and up top, you have where you can select your promo codes for your app version. And then down below, we're going to let you set up in-app purchase promo codes. The first thing you do is you select which in-app purchase you want to get a promo code for. I'm going to do Dream Trips to Europe. I just need the one right now. And so we go through the next step. It's how many promo codes do you want? So we can select in here. I think right now I need 25. That ought to do it. And that's it. Now I'm ready to generate my promo codes. I can download them as a text file and distribute those, and people can download my in-app purchase via promo code. Now this feature, as well as the rest of the changes to subscriptions, will be available later this fall. And those are our changes to in-app purchase. Now the next thing I want to talk about is iTunes Connect for iOS. And to do that, I'm going to introduce Mike on state to tell you more. Mike? Thank you, Dave. Good afternoon, everyone. My name is Mike Amirault, and I am very excited to be here today to talk to you about iTunes Connect for iOS. Before I begin, how many of you out there have downloaded and used our app? All right. Quite a few. We'll try to get the rest of you to download it before this session's over. For those of you who haven't downloaded it, let me give you a brief description about what it does. iTunes Connect for iOS is our mobile companion app to the iTunes Connect website. It allows you on-the-go access to your sales and trends, ratings and reviews for all your apps, the ability to reject a binary or at least your app for the store, and push notifications, so you can be immediately notified of any changes to your apps. It is available for free in the App Store. Let's talk about what's new. In the past year, we released many new features for the mobile app, but there's three that I would like to highlight for you today. First, new push notifications, second, multiprovider support, and third, full access to Resolution Center within the mobile app. Let's look at each of these. New push notifications, we added three new types of push notifications in the past year. First, if your app contracts are about to expire, second, if you get a message from our App Review team, you can now get a push notification so you can deal with the issue immediately. And lastly, and this has been a developer favorite so far, you can get a push notification when your app has finished input processing for the store. I know. It's the little things. So let's talk about multiprovider support. What does that mean? Some of you work on apps for more than one provider. In the past, this was not the easiest thing in the world to do. You would have to have a separate user account, and you would have to log out and log back in, in order to see all your apps. With multiprovider support, you can one account, and you can have it associated with all the providers that you work for. I'd like to show you how that works in the mobile app. When you log in, we'll automatically set the provider to the last one that you logged in with. If you want to change it, simply tap on the settings icon in the bottom right, and then tap on the providers line. This will show you all the providers associated with your account. Simply pick the one you want, and now you're seeing content for just that provider. Now push notifications are unique per provider. So you can turn them on for some of your providers or turn them off for others. It's completely up to you how you want to set it up. So that's multiprovider support, and I hope that helps those of you that work with more than one provider. Resolution Center, this was the biggest new feature we've added in the past year, full access to resolution center within the mobile app. Let me show you what that looks like. Anywhere within the mobile app where we display a list of your apps, either in recents, favorites, or search results, any of your apps that have active Resolution Center issues will be displayed with a red badge. Let's tap into one of those. So you can see at the top of the view it gives you a brief description of the number of active issues you have and which platform they're on. Let's tap on that header. Here you can see the full text of the issue, and you can get a complete history of all the replies associated with it. If you tap on the reply icon in the top right, you have the option here to forward this issue on through email to another member of your team to look at, or you can reply directly within the mobile app to the App Review team. When App Review responds, you can get a push notification so you can deal with the issue immediately. So that's the Resolution Center feature. It's just one of the three -- So that's the Resolution Center feature. Now let's talk about what's coming next. Now there's one feature that's been at or near the top of this list for most developers, sales and proceeds, the ability to see exactly how much money you're making in gross sales and proceeds directly within the mobile app. I am happy to say that this feature will be coming in our next release, and I would like to show it to you now. So this is the Sales and Trends module as it looks when you sign in today. On the left side, you'll see the number of downloads for each line item, and on the right side in the red and green rectangles, you see the delta change between the current period you're looking at and the previous period. Much like the stocks app, if you tap on one of the red and green rectangles, you can change the display. So let's tap on it, and now we're looking at proceeds for each of these line items. If we tap on it again, now we're seeing the gross sales figures. As we tap through the various displays, the graph at the bottom of the page will change to represent the dimension that you're looking at. Let's look at top products. Here we're showing the gross sales numbers for your top products. This will allow you to easily see exactly how much money your most popular apps are generating for you, and again, you can tap the red or green rectangles to change between sales, proceeds, and units. Let's look at a specific app. When you're looking at a specific app, you can get the daily sales breakdowns. Here we're showing the number of downloads. If we tap on the view line, we can switch between units, proceeds, sales, and updates. Let's look at sales. Then we hit back. So now we're displaying the gross sales numbers on a per day basis. So that's our new sales and proceeds feature. It will be available in our next release, and we know you've been waiting for it for a while, so it'll be available today. Now since we're going to be releasing this feature today, I'd like to take this opportunity to demonstrate for you my favorite feature of our mobile app, and that's the ability to release your app for the App Store. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to show you on the current version of iTunes Connect for iOS to release the new version of iTunes Connect for iOS. So we're going to do that now. First off, you want to find your app. Mine's very easy to find because naturally it's in my favorites. And you can see we have two versions. One is currently live on the store. We don't want to be downloading that one right now. And our second one is pending developer release. So let's look at our new version. And you can see we have two options here. We can either release this version, or reject the binary. We don't want to reject the binary right now. So we're going to tap on release this version, and it will give us a confirmation panel because we don't want you to accidentally reject or release your binary. And we're going to tap on release. And there it is. The app is now ready for sale. So the app is now live in the App Store, and it'll be available for download shortly, and I'm now going to hand you back over to Dave. All right. Thanks, Mike. That's what's coming up in iTunes Connect for iOS, with enhanced notification support, Resolution Center built right into the app, as well as the just released sales and proceeds updates. So I'm going to talk about App Analytics, and it's hard to believe that it's been just over a year since this has become such a great tool in iTunes Connect Toolbox. And to talk more about what is new with App Analytics, I'm going to invite David on stage. David? All right. Thanks, Dave. I'm David Hopkins, and I'm going to talk to you a little bit about what's new in App Analytics. For those of you who haven't used App Analytics, it's available as a part of iTunes Connect. It's free. There's no integration required, no SDK, and it has customer privacy built in. So let's talk about why App Analytics. Why are analytics important? First, analytics provides answers. Are customers finding my app? Are customers downloading my app? Are they using my app? How stable is my app? These are some of the questions that App Analytics can help you answer. Next, App Analytics reveals missed opportunities. Perhaps you have a large customer base in Japan, and you didn't realize that customers were using your app in Japan. Well, that's an opportunity for you to go and localize your app to Japanese. And App Analytics can help you find opportunities like this. Next, App Analytics helps you build a better app. There's been a lot of great sessions this week helping you design and build great apps. But we believe that building great apps doesn't just stop when you release the first version. It's important to continue to iterate on your app, and App Analytics can provide you the information to make great decisions moving forward. So let's talk about the types of analytics data that we provide. First, we provide App Store data. This is data about how many times your app is being viewed on the App Store, how many customers are purchasing your app. Next, we provide sales data. This is data about how much money customers are spending in your app, how many users are spending money in your app, and how much -- and how many in-app purchases are occurring in your app. And finally, there's usage data. This is data about how frequently customers are using your app, what your customer retention is like, and how stable your app is. So with this data, we're able to provide you data all the way from the time that you're acquiring customers with App Store data down to engaging with customers with usage data. But today, we're primarily going to be focused on updates to App Store data. And App Store data starts with product page views. Every time a customer views your App Store page on the App Store, this registers a product page view. So, for example, we have our app, Trip Guide, and this is our product page. Customer views this. This would count as a product page view. If a customer goes on to purchase our app, it's $3.99. They purchase our app. This would count as an app unit. So app units help you track the number of new users that you have in any given time period. So this helps you understand your App Store presence. You're able to see the number of times that your product page was viewed. You're able to see the number of new users you have. But it doesn't tell the whole story of your App Store presence because it doesn't tell you all the other places in the App Store that customers can view your app. And so, to help you understand that, we're introducing a new measure called impressions. So impressions are going to show you the number of times that customers have viewed your app on the App Store. So we talked about one way that customers view your apps. That's your product page. But let's talk about other ways that customers view your app on the App Store. First, there's search. A customer searches for guides, for example, and our app Trip Guide shows up in the search results. This will count as an impression as well. If you're taking advantage of the new search ads and your app shows up in search results this way, this will also count as an impression. If your app shows up in the category section or in our top charts or featured, these are all ways that will register impressions in App Analytics. So this is the new feature impressions. Let's take a look at what this looks like in the product. This is the App List. This the entry point to the App Analytics product. From here, you can see a snapshot across all of your iOS and Apple TV apps across five key measures, starting with your impressions to see how many customers are viewing your app on the App Store, app units to tell you how many new users you have, sales to tell you how much money customers are spending in or on your app, sessions to tell you how many times customers have opened your app, and crashes to give you an idea of how stable your app is. We show you the value for the current period as well as the percentage change from the previous period to help you understand whether this number is good or bad. So we can see our app, Trip Guide. It's in the first row here. And we can see that in the last 30 days, we had around 300,000 impressions. This is a 17 percent increase from the previous period. If we want to find out more information about this number, you can click into that number, and it'll take you to the metrics view. So the metrics view allows you to see a little bit of more information about any of these numbers. You can see this data charted over time, and you can also slice this by various dimensions to see if you want to see something -- drill down to something more specific, perhaps how many impression you have just in the United States. In addition to providing a count of impressions, we're also providing unique devices on impressions. So if you select that, you'll filter down to just the unique devices for impressions. So if I were to view my app Trip Guide on the App Store three times in one day on the same device, that would count as three impressions, but one unique impression. So if I select that, now I'm viewing just the unique devices for impressions. This helps us better understand the total number of customers who are viewing our app on the App Store at any given time period. With this, we can start to compare that number to the number of new users we have, and then we can start to understand our App Store conversion rate, how well our App Store presence is converting to new users. So I'll walk you through that. You can select compare to and compare to app units. Now you're viewing app units compared to impressions on the same graph, but it'd be a little easier to view this data as a ratio. So if you change from single access and select ratio, now you can view this as a ratio trended over time, and we can see that our app has about -- it takes about ten impressions for one app unit. And so, we can start to -- as we update our screenshots and our description to our App Store page, we can start to see what effect that has on our App Store conversion rate. So that's the impression feature and how you can start to use it to look at your App Store conversion rate. And we're excited to announce that all this is available now in App Analytics. So let's talk about what's next in App Analytics. We've given you impressions to help you understand the number of customers that are viewing your app on the App Store, but the next question we want to help you answer is how are customers finding my app? And we do this today with sources. And so, let's talk about what types of sources there are for customers to find your app on the App Store. The first source is browsing the App Store. So we talked about one example earlier with searching on the App Store. We've searched for guides. That's one way that customers discover your app. Similarly, if we were to find our app browsing the App Store in the top charts, in featured, in the categories section, these are all ways that customers are finding your app by browsing the App Store. So that's one source for customers to find your app. But we recognize that there are other ways that customers are finding your apps outside of the App Store. And so, the first source that we're going to talk about outside of the App Store are websites. So websites are tracked any time a customer taps on a link from a website in Mobile Safari, and that takes you to the App Store page. This counts as a source type of websites. So we have our app Trip Guide here, and we've included a link on our website, TripGuide.Apple.com. This would be a situation where the source is website, and the website is TripGuide.Apple.com. So that's one source where customers can find your app outside of the App Store. The other source that we're going to talk about for customers to find your app outside of the App Store are other apps. So for example, we tweeted about our app Trip Guide here, and we included a link to our App Store page. We're trying to promote our app socially on Twitter. Someone follows that link. That would be an example of a case where the source was another app, and the app was Twitter. Similarly, if customers are sharing your app using mail, if you're taking advantage of the new messages features in iOS 10 and customers are sharing your app on messages, these are other examples of where the source would be another app for customers to find your app. And the apps here would be mail and messages. Okay. So those are the three sources types for how customers are find your apps. Let's take a look at how we plan to visualize this in the product. First, if you've been using the product today, you're probably familiar with this view. This is the list of your top websites. From here, you're able to see which websites are driving the most traffic to your app, and not only are you able to see the number of impressions that came from these websites, but you're also able to see that across your app units to understand how many new users came from each website. You're able to see the sales to understand how much money these customers are spending who came from each website. And you're able to see sessions so you can understand the usage from customers who came from each website. So we talked about the Twitter mobile app as an example. Well, if a customer also is viewing your app and came from Twitter.com in Safari, this would show up under your top websites. All right. So that's the list of your top websites. Let's talk about how we plan to visualize the list of your top apps. This is the App List. From here, you're able to view the top apps that contributed to traffic for customers finding your app. So we talked -- again, we talked about Twitter, the Twitter mobile app. It'll show up here. Messages, if that's a source for customers finding your app, this will show up here as well. So as you start to promote your app across many different channels, you'll be able to view which channels are the most effective and be able to compare them not just across impressions, but across all of the measures that you have available on App Analytics today. So that's the new app sources feature with the new top apps. Next we're going to talk about how we plan to visualize the three sources that I talked to you about before. And the first way is with the Source Overview. With the Source Overview, we're planning to give you visibility into each of these three sources so that you can understand which of these three sources is contributing to the most customers discovering your app. So you can see customers who found your app from browsing the App Store, customers who came from an app refer, and customers who came from a web refer, all in one place. And you can see a percentage from each of those sources. Right now, we're looking at impressions, but you can also look at any of the other measures. So again, you can look at your sales. You can look at your sessions and understand how customers are using your app that came from each source. And so, we talked before about the App Store conversion rate and how you're able to look at your App Store conversion rate. Well, you could also look at your App Store conversion rate across each of these sources. So let's do that. When we left off in the metrics view, we were here in the App Store conversion rate. If we want to view this rate across each of our sources, we can select view by. And you can see in there we have all of our sources available. We could look at territory to understand how our App Store conversion rate is on each territory. But for right now, we're going to select source type. And so, if we select source type, now we're able to see our App Store conversion rate for each of the three sources that we talked about and better understand which source is converting the best on the App Store. So that's the new sources feature and how we plan to visualize it in the product. We're excited to say that this will be coming later this year. That's what's new in App Analytics and a little bit of what's coming. I'm going to hand it back over to Dave. Thank you. All right. Thanks, David. That's what's new in App Analytics. So let's talk about screenshot simplification. And to talk about this, the best way to do it is to take a step back and think about what are our screenshots? So you can have up to five screenshots for each of your devices that give customers a real quick snapshot into what's going on in your app when they're browsing the App Store. And since we give you five screenshots for each device size, when you're developing for iPhone, that's going to give you 20 screenshots. As you start to include iPad into your app, that number increases to 30, and this is before you've even done any kind of localization. And we support up to 28 different languages on iTunes Connect and the App Store, bringing you up to 840 different screenshots that you can upload. And we haven't even included the Apple Watch. With Apple Watch, that number increases to up to 980 screenshots, and this is great. There's a lot of power in this because you can actually get the right screenshot for the right device and the correct localization. But you don't always need this much power, and that's what screenshot simplification is about and how we can simplify this into just one set of screenshots per device family. Yeah, we can clap for this one. So let's see what this is going to look like in iTunes Connect. So we're going to start on the version page, and the first thing you'll notice is that there at the top we just have the two sections, iPhone, iPad. And now the [inaudible] will support our larger sized iPhone screenshots, the 5-1/2 inch. So we drag those on in. They fill in. We have our app preview first, followed by our five screenshots. And if we want to see our other sizes, that's just down below. We can open it up, and we can see that automatically we've begun to share those screenshots I uploaded from my 5-1/2 inch down to these smaller sizes. In fact, if we zoom in, we can tell we've written on the screenshot where these images came from. And if we want to change this, what screenshots we have for these other sizes, then we have a new area of iTunes Connect called the Media Manager. Now let's look into this. This Media Manager is going to hold all of our information about all those screenshots and app previews that we upload across different languages on all of our devices. So you can see at the top we have our 5-1/2 inch screenshots, and they've been shared down below with the smaller sizes. In fact, if we change our screenshot order for the 5-1/2 inch, it's also going to change those that have been shared. But not every app looks and behaves the same on the 5-1/2 inch iPhone as it does on the smaller sizes. So you may want to upload screenshots that are more specific for your device size. In order to do that, there's a checkbox right here for our 4.7 inch. We're going to stop sharing by unchecking that box, and that's going to clear out these shared screenshots. We simply drag in the new 4.7 inch screenshots, and now these screenshots are actually sharing with those that are smaller. We're going to find the next closest larger size from which we can share screenshots. Now if we want to localize our app on our app screenshots, we can do the same thing in other languages. So let's pick German. When we look at our German images inside of Media Manager, we're going to see that the 5-1/2 inch German screenshots came from my default localization, in this case my US English. And the 4.7 are copied from the 4.7 default localization. If I want to upload German-specific screenshots, I can come here to my checkbox, uncheck this sharing, and this is actually going to clear out all of my screenshots for German. We're going to favor your localized screenshots over all else. So now we can drag in my 5-1/2 inch German screenshots, and they're going to fill in not only this larger size, but everything down below. And since my German app also behaves differently on these different sizes, I can come in here, uncheck the sharing for this 4.7 inch. They get cleared out, and I drag in my new screenshots. And that's it. And that's how we use screenshot simplification. There's two different kinds of media management. We start with iPhone and iPad where they're going to share across all the different localizations as well as the different size that you have. But there are some device types that don't have multiple sizes, Apple Watch, Apple TV, and the Mac. You can still use screenshot simplification, but in this case, all you're going to share across are the localizations. What if you do want to still upload all 980 screenshots? Well, the best way to do that is for the Transporter XML Feed. This is a command line automation tool that we provide that lets you upload all screenshot sizes, all your app previews, as well as any other localized metadata. You can set your pricing for your app. You can include metadata for your in-app purchases, your leaderboards, and achievements in Game Center. And if you want more information about this, you can go to the Resources and Help section of iTunes Connect, or last year we had a great session on getting the most out of iTunes Connect, where we went over a little bit more to Transporter XML Feed. So what is screenshot simplification? Quite simply, create only the required screenshots that you need and share those across localizations and sizes. And this will be available later this summer. Now I want to talk about iMessage apps. This is a great new feature that we're providing so you can really interact with the people using your app in new ways. And we wanted to touch on what do you have to do on iTunes Connect to get these apps ready for the App Store? We tried to make it as simple as possible and as relatable to what you're already doing. So the first thing is, is if you're creating a Stickers iMessage app, then we have a new category for you, a Stickers category, with some more subcategories, all about Stickers. And the second thing is we have device screenshots just for your iMessage apps. So you can show what it'll be like to use your app inside of messages, and we can show those on the App Store for iMessage apps. Now how does this work with the Media Management? iMessage apps behave just like iPhone and iPad in that we have different sizes we take so you can show how it works on all of your devices as well as across localizations. And this works the same way with screenshot simplification. Now if you want to know more information about iMessage apps, we have two great sessions on that. If you didn't get a chance to see those, again, I encourage you to check those out. And that's what it takes in order to use your iMessage apps on iTunes Connect. Now the last thing we want to talk about today are the guideline changes. And those of you who are frequent viewers of "What's New on iTunes Connect?" know that often we take this time to talk with App Review about do they have any suggestions for you on ways to maybe get your app through App Review more efficiently or perhaps some common stumbling blocks that developers run into. And this year, we're going to do it a little bit differently for a couple of reasons. The first is that App Review times have gone way down, and we've worked really hard to make that faster. And the second is that we've updated our guidelines to hopefully make it easier for you to get these answers to the questions, and you can get this information much faster. So the biggest change in our guidelines is the way in which they're worded. You could call it more human readable. Instead of a list of things, don't do this, or don't do that, we've really tried to give you advice on what makes a good app and what are the best ways to get your app ready for the App Store. In fact, we've also included information in here for when you're ready to submit your app, sort of a checklist on things you can be thinking of, such as is my server ready to go when I submit to App Review, not just when it's ready to go on the App Store? Does your app require a login in order to work? If that's the case, go ahead and put that on iTunes Connect before you submit to App Review. These guidelines are really meant to be read so you can understand them, just sort of sit down. In fact, how many people have already read the new App Guidelines? So that's not enough. Those at home can't see this. It takes about 20 to 30 minutes to sit down and read the guidelines and get a feel for what they are. The great thing about them being human readable in English is it's much easier to translate them to be human readable in Spanish or human readable in Chinese. And so, we've localized in these App Guidelines in up to ten different languages. We've also combined our macOS guidelines with iOS guidelines. You only have one place to go to get an answer to what is appropriate for my app. And lastly, I want to talk about the organization of these guidelines. We want to try to make it easier, like I said, to find answers to questions that you have about your app and getting it through App Review, sort of changing it from more of a feature-based system to more contextual. And so, we broke this into five different areas. And in fact, it kind of shows some of the changes with the guidelines. We've created a comic book and broke these five different areas into five different parts of that book. So let's talk about this different areas. The first is safety, and this is really the safety of the people using your app, the content, if it's appropriate for kids, if it's safe for kids. And also, are the people that are going to be using your app doing some harm to themselves or to the device? It's that kind of safety. The next area is performance. What kind of hardware does your app need? How is it running? Then we can talk about business. Is your app appropriate for these in-app purchases? How does it work well with Apple Pay? Do you have a alternate business model? You want to understand what kind of business models are appropriate for the App Store. You can check with the business area of the guidelines. Let me talk with design and what makes a great app for the App Store? Simple, refined, innovative, and easy to use. And last, everybody's favorite, legal. A couple of people thought that was funny. This is where we can talk about the rules around privacy, intellectual property, and gambling apps. If you want to know when do I need to have a privacy policy and more information about that, you can check these out. And these are our different areas for the guideline changes. Again, instead of reading the guidelines and finding out that you need a privacy policy for a kid's category or you need a privacy policy for an autorenewable, why don't you instead go to one place to find out what are the rules around privacy policies? In order to help you find the answers to the questions you have better. And those are our changes to the guidelines. So what's new in iTunes Connect? Well, we've got the changes to in-app purchases with subscriptions and promo codes. We have updates to iTunes Connect for iOS with a Resolution Center built into the app and just released changes to sales and proceeds. We also talked about the new impressions coming to App Analytics and other sources. Screenshot simplification allows you to create just the screenshots that you need and the languages and sizes that work for you. We talked about what do you need to do to get your iMessage apps ready for the App Store through iTunes Connects and the changes to the App Guidelines. If you have any more questions, you can get more information from our sessions URL here at the Developers Conference. We talked about these other related sessions. I'm putting them here so you can take a look at them. And with that, I hope you've had a great conference and a great week, and we'll see you next year. Thanks a lot. 