 [ Music ] Alright. Good afternoon, everyone. Welcome, and thank you for coming to this session. My name is Ryan Griggs, and I work on the Apple News team, and I am thrilled to be here this afternoon to talk to you about some of the great things you can do in Apple News, how to get set up, and some best practices. So we have a lot to cover today, and so I wanted to go through a quick agenda so we know where we are in the presentation as we, as we go through it. So first we'll do a quick intro to News to get an understanding of sort of why News exists, and what it's all about. We'll also take a quick look at the app to get some context as far as where your, your content and your publication will show up. And then next we'll learn how to set up your channel using News Publisher, which is the tool that we use to manage content in Apple News. Then we'll do a quick overview of RSS, and then we'll dive a bit deeper on Apple News Format. Then we'll also talk about how to publish articles in Apple News. We have a few different options and make it really easy to author and then deliver content into our system. We'll talk about how to make money off your content. Talk about analytics and insights. Specifically, what's available to you as an Apple News Format Publisher, and then talk about a few best practices for making your publication successful in Apple News. So, first, let's do a quick intro to the Apple News app. So News was launched with iOS9 last year with the goal of delivering the best stories from the best publishers, and then personalizing it for you. And so News is built right into iOS, which means it's available to anyone with an iOS device as long as they live in one of the three countries News is available in, and so News is in the U.S., U.K. and Australia right now. And so one of the big parts of News is Apple News Format, which is our JSON based document format. It makes it possible to create some amazing very engaging experiences within your articles. And so we'll talk a bit more about that later. But in order to understand how cool Apple News Format is, I wanted to show you a few articles that are good examples of what you can do with it. So this one is an article from "Wired," and we'll actually scroll through this and take a look at what's in there. You can see there's a little bit of parallax as we scroll. There's beautiful imagery. This is a photo mosaic. Can tap in on the photos, swipe through them. It's really great, immersive, and beautiful. And you'll also notice, too, that as we scroll, this is, of course, a, a "Wired" article. This looks like "Wired". And so we give you the tools to make your articles and your channel look like your brand. So here's another one from "Bloomberg." Very different look to this, but, again, very striking with some beautiful photography. You see we have some of type on top of the images. As you scroll, some really beautiful bold topography. Great use of parallax here. It really shows a lot of emotion and depth in this article. So another great example. Show you one more. This one in iPad. You can really do a lot of cool stuff with Apple News, and this is an example of a publisher of the BBC who, who really created something at the beginning of the article that makes you want to read further and see what other great stuff you might find. So Apple News Format gives you a lot of really cool tools. So let's take a quick look at the News app. Just understand where your content shows up. So News is organized into five separate tabs. So first we have For You. For You is a personalized feed of articles that deliver content that you're interested in based upon what you're following and what you're reading. And it's got a huge update, as you saw yesterday. We have a completely new redesign and all new look and feel but also the concept of sections, which include things like trending, topic groups based upon what you're following in News, and then featured stories which allow our editors to find some of the most beautiful, engaging Apple News format articles and feature them right in for you. Favorites. This is where your publication goes when a user taps the Plus (+) button to favorite it, and it allows you just to return to your publication at any time. And then we have Explorer. This is where users will go to find new channels and then new topics, and so we have topics and news in addition to publications, and these are essentially combinations of articles from different publishers all around a specific topic. So you can follow things like sports or heavy metal or whatever you like. Then, of course, we have Search. We have hundreds of thousands of topics in News, and you can search for topics and publications in the News app. And then, finally, your articles can end up in Saved. If a user starts reading them but feels like they want to finish reading it later, and you can also look at your history and clear it if you like as well. So that's how News is organized within the app. So during this session, we're going to talk about some of the best practices when publishing news and how to get set up, but, first, let's discuss your publication and how it shows up in News. So publications in News are called channels. So what is a channel? Well, this is what a channel looks like, and this is the one we're going to create in News today in this presentation. So channels represent your publication in News are sort of like your home page. Articles you publish appear in your channel, and it's where users can return to to engage more deeply and directly specifically with your brand. So a good example for, of a channel would be, like, a magazines, a newspaper, or a blog. They're very customizable. So you can really make them reflect the look of your brand. So you can do things like customize the logo, add a cover image, which we'll talk about a bit later and customize sections to organize your content. And you can create more than one channel. So if you have more than one blog or more than one newspaper, you can have a separate channel for each one. They can be based on Apple News format or RSS, and you can link to them just using a regular link. So how do we set up a channel in News Publisher, or to set up a channel in Apple News? You go to our web, online web tool called News Publisher. And so News Publisher makes it really easy to manage your presence in Apple News. It lets you do things like set up and configure options for your channels to make sure it looks like and works like you want it to. It lets you assign roles to people in your organization. It lets you view analytics, set up reports, and gain insight on how your articles and your channel is performing. It also helps you set up delivery of content and helps you manage it. It even lets you create Apple News format articles right from News Publisher, and we'll do a demo of that shortly. So a few things to think about before you sign up for Apple News. You want to consider who will, who's going to manage the account. Think about people like interns. They eventually leave, and you don't want to leave access to your account to an intern that won't be here in a few months. So make sure you give access to someone who will be with you for a while. So a common problem that we have. You also want to use a real e-mail address that you own. Sounds like an obvious thing, but we actually communicate with you via this e-mail address if we find issues with, for example, your RSS feed or what we're finding in your Apple News format articles. And so we want to be able to use that to get a hold of you. And also think about international distribution. So News is available in the U.S., U.K., and Australia. You want to make sure that you've got rights to deliver whatever content, images, etc. in Apple News in these territories. And so the easiest way to sign up to publish in Apple News is to go to our developer page or just go to Apple.com/news scroll to the bottom, and then click on Sign-Up Now. That will take you directly to News Publisher. So News Publisher requires an Apple ID. If you don't have one already, then you'll be prompted to set one up, although I suspect most people here have one. And then once you've signed up to publish in Apple News, the News Publisher icon will show up in iCloud next to your other icons so you can get back to it really quickly. It's one of the great things about using Apple ID is that when you use the same one as on your iOS device it allows you to easily preview articles before you publish right on your device. So this is what News Publisher looks like. We're not going to dive into it just yet, but we're going to start up by talking about a few of the things you need when you're setting up your channel. So every channel, no matter if it's using RSS or Apple News format, needs a few things. One, it needs sections; two, it needs a channel logo; and it needs a cover image. And so let's talk about the best practices for a few of these. So, first, sections. So sections make it possible to group your articles by type. So, like, entertainment, top stories, or sports. You can have a lot of sections in News, but we really recommend only having three to four because essentially we don't see people scrolling to find more channels that are off screen, and you want them to fit on an iPhone screen at rest. And for the same reason as using only as many sections as you need, keep the name short. You don't want to have really long names that push your other sections off the screen. It's important to note that the first section is always the default. So when users come to your channel or return to it, this is what they will see first. It's sort of like the first impression that they'll, that they will see. Another really important note is when Apple News goes and builds the For You feed, it's going to look at articles that are in your default first section in your channel and pull from there and not your other sections. So if you want to have your articles potentially show up in For You, for, in user's Apple News app, you need to make sure that you're publishing them to the default section. So for the channel logo, the channel logo is essentially an image of your publication's logo. And so for maximum legibility, you want your logo to be horizontal text on one line, use transparent background with no fill. If you don't use a transparent background, you're going to end up with a logo that looks something like this. Something that we see fairly often, and we, we need to, to reach out to publishers to fix. Also avoid using just raw photos. They're going to end up being really small in the various places that we use them in News, and sometimes we end up just being a, a grey box as well because they don't have transparency. We recommend having a logo that's 256 pixels tall, and then not more than 10 to 1 aspect ratio, but don't make it any wider than you need to. Otherwise, it will make it incredibly small in some places like 4U Feeds. If you can, avoid things like copyrights and trademarks alongside your logo. In many places, the logos are very small on the screen, and they just get lost in the [inaudible]. And then, finally, with promotional text or URL's, you typically want to avoid using those if you can. The promotional text will be very hard to read in places, and just makes your logo smaller. And then URL's set up the expectation that they will be tappable, which, of course, they won't be. And so this is what a channel logo looks like in the 4U Feed. And so this is a really important place for your channel logo to look great because the vast majority of our users spend time in 4U, and so you want to make sure that your logo looks great and is highly legible here. So your logo also appears in your channel tile, and so the channel tile is a combination of the channel logo and what we call a cover image. And a channel tile is essentially your billboard within News to bring readers in, and this is what it looks like in favorites, but it's also featured in several other places in News, including our on-boarding experience. This is where users first enter News and make decisions about who they're going to follow in the Apple News app. And so this is going to be your only representation, especially for those users who don't know anything about your publication. You want to make sure that you have a great logo and a great cover image that's representative of what your brand is all about and is super engaging. We also have channel tiles in Explorer where editors can feature them, and we have recommendations come in the For You feed occasionally. So it's a really important way to drive users to sign up for, to follow your channel and to read it. So to make the cover image look as great as possible, please, please submit a high-quality, high-resolution images. We recommend 600 x 600 pixels. You can choose two paths for this. You can either do a static cover, which means that it will always be the same. This is great for brands that have a really identifiable logo mark, or an, an image that users will recognize when they see it, but you can also choose to have a dynamic cover image as well. This is great if you want users returning to your channel, and they see your tile, and it actually pulls image from articles in your feed, and so it stays very up to date and dynamic with what's happening in your channel. So when you're signing up to publish in Apple News, you'll eventually see this screen where you can choose whether to sign up for Apple News format or whether to use RSS. So we're going to talk about each of these. Let's briefly talk about RSS. So when does it make sense to use RSS? So News supports displaying articles from your RSS feed if you have one, and it's an appropriate solution if you already have a website or you already have an RSS feed, and you want to get your content into News really quickly. But, ultimately, we only really recommend using RSS as a stepping stone to get to Apple News format. It's important to note that the vast majority of articles read in Apple News are using Apple News format, and so they're really engaging. They have animations and parallax and all of the things that Apple News format allows. And so if you're not using Apple News format, it's a, it's not a great comparison. So we, it's always best to use Apple News format. But if you do need to use Apple News format, or if you do need to use RSS, these are some of the features that, that RSS supports. Gives you the ability to, to pull in images, headlines, and excerpts. We also show a preview page of RSS articles that it pulls from your feed. And so this allows those to, those previews to load really quickly so we don't have to load from your web page. We host the RSS excerpt. So when you use a [inaudible] article, it loads immediately. And then, of course, you ultimately will host your web page if users choose to tap through to your web page. So there's some best practices for RSS. You want to make your preview full and enticing. If you make it really short, the odds are users will tap in, see that it's only a sentence or two, and then go back out and look for one of the many Apple News format articles that offer a full experience. So use long form, full text RSS when you can, and avoid links to unrelated content. Things like boilerplates, article footers, terms and conditions, user agreements, privacy policies. You don't really need that in your preview, and it just clutters up the experience and takes away from the simplicity and the beauty of your article. And then Apple News already has built into some great sharing features that users are accustomed to using to share your content is you don't need to include links like tweet this or like this on Facebook. The app already takes care of that, and, again, it just adds noise to your article. Make sure your actual web page is optimized for Safari on iOS. The worst thing you can have is a user follows through the preview, goes to your web page, and then they have a big desktop formatted website. Then, finally, similar to a point I made earlier, make sure you provide a dedicated point of contact. So something happens with your RSS feed, and we're having trouble getting your content to appear in News, we want to be able to reach out to you. So when you first set up your channel, your RSS channel, you can configure your feeds, and you do that by setting up your sections that we talked about earlier. So you start out with your default section. This is the one that For You pulls from, and you can customize that default section. You can change the name, and then there's a field to set up your RSS feed, you can have multiple RSS feeds for sections, per section if you like. And so this is what it looks like once you have it populated. You can reorder them, and change them later if you like as well. And so once you're up and running and approved to go in Apple News, this is what your News Publisher interface will look like. You'll see we have a couple tabs there where you can return and manage your sections, manage your channel info, etc. But, ultimately, you want to up, upgrade to Apple News format as soon as you can, and so we have a big blue button at the top that makes that really easy. Once you click that, you can just click OK in the dialogue, and that'll move you on to Apple News format. So what can you do with Apple News format? Why is it so great? Well, first, we provide a, a robust content delivery network. We have points of presence around the world that ensures lightning fast loading and no delay. Nothing will ensure people won't read your article like an article that doesn't load. We also supply rich analytics, and we also automatically optimize for each device. Apple News format is really focused on author wants and having it look great on any device automatically. We provide simple but powerful monetization tools. We have a dedicated Apple News editorial team that's just looking for great content every single day, and that's a huge opportunity for you if you're creating really engaging cool stuff. We also have built-in cross promotion. So if publish an article using Apple News format, it's really easy to have at the bottom of it, more articles from your channel and related articles from other channels. It's a great way to drive additional traffic. Apple News format itself supports lots of cool features like animations, parallax, galleries, videos, photo mosaics. It's incredibly powerful and really easy to add these elements to your articles. We also support dynamic text sizing. If you have that set in iOS for improved legibility, and then we're also very accessible. We have great support for the accessibility features in iOS like voice over. And we have lots of options for delivery of content into Apple News. So lots of advantages to using Apple News format. And so we clicked our blue button in RSS, and we've been approved to use Apple News format. And so we've got our channel ready, but now we need to deliver an article into Apple News so we can take a look at it and make sure that it's formatted correctly and, and is working as it should, and so you can do that a couple ways. You can do that by creating an article using the built-in authoring tool, or you can deliver an article via the API. And so we'll talk about both of those in more detail later, but let's say that you've delivered your article. We'll take a moment to look at it, and then we'll go through a pending state. And then once you're ready to go, you'll see at the top available in News status, and that means your channel is live, ready to go. You're starting, you're ready to start publishing articles in Apple News. And so once you're approved, you're going to notice that you're going to have more tabs there tha were available to RSS, to your RSS channel. And so there are some new ones here, and some of these work differently than the RSS sections. So one example is the sections tab itself. You can see here that there are no longer RSS feeds that are associated with each section. You don't need your RSS feed anymore because Apple News format handles all of that. And, of course, you can reorder them, rename them here as you like as well. We also have the ability to manage members and roles within Apple News. So if you work in a multi-person team, it's really easy to invite new users, assign roles from admin, which has full access to everything in News Publisher all the way down to sales people who only access analytics and view articles or just viewers who can only view the content in it. So very powerful. So a few best practices when you're using Apple News format. First, you want to make sure you're using appropriate subject matter. You want to avoid things like click bait or misleading headlines. It's really not what we look for in News. News is also not allowed to be created, to be used as a marketing platform. We really encourage you to create content that's going to engage, inform, and delight users. And then take advantage of Apple News format capabilities. So use things like the animation and the beautiful galleries and imagery that really draws users in and makes them come back and makes them read longer. And use analytics to your advantage. Pay attention to what users are reading, and maybe they're reading a lot of one type of article or a specific article that you've, that you wrote, and they may want to, you may want to write more articles like that. Then, of course, you want to monetize, which we'll talk about in a minute. So three ways to get your content into Apple News. One is web authoring, another is Apple News API, and the third is plug-ins. And so, first, let's talk about web authoring. So News Publisher supports a rich drag-and-drop web authoring experience. The output's beautiful, simple, Apple News Format articles directly to your channel in News. So rather than showing more slides, let me show you a quick demo, show you how easy it is. Alright. So this is News Publisher, and if you want to make a new Apple News Format article, you can just click create article, and then we land in the authoring interface. And so just a quick tour of this. We have our standard toolbar for iCloud up here. You have undo, redo. We have a styling palette that lets you change the look and feel of each article. We have a Publish button that lets you publish directly to your channel. We also have a Help Link up here, which is really useful and very rich, very deep if you're having any issues with publishing in Apple News. And then we've got our header image and the content of the article below. So let's start off by making an article. So for our header image, we can choose to have an image with a text on top. You can have the text below the image, or we can have a text-only article with no image. So let's go and create an article that has a beautiful image. OK. And so let's go, and let's bring in a nice header image. Alright. So that looks nice. Let's add a nice title and a subtitle. Let's go to an extra space here, and then, and have the author, let's put that in the right spot, too. And let's add some body text. Rather than typing it, just do a quick copy, paste. Alright. So now we've got the beginnings of a beautiful Apple News format article. So you can do a lot of things to make it really rich and engaging. So it's really easy to add a link, for example, if we can just, let's go grab our link here, and we can just select the text we want to turn into a link, and then we get a nice pop over here. We can just click the link button, paste the URL in, hit OK, and we've got a link. And so you can also add rich text. For example, if we just select some text, we can make it italic. We can also make it bold. And so pull quotes are one of the really cool things about Apple News, and so let's make one here. Let's grab a piece of text, and let's add it here, and then if we select this text, we can make it into a pull quote just with one click. And so that really makes it stand out and look beautiful. Now let's do some, some work on the styling of this article. So if we click on the Styling Palette, we can very quickly jump between different styles. Here's modern. A nice sanserif. Here's bold, and let's do classic for this one. I think classic looks, looks really nice. OK, and let's mess around with the colors a bit. You can go with a darker format if you'd like, or you can try different colors, but let's go with a blue since that looks pretty nice. It's also really easy to add images in the body of your text. So we just grab a couple of images from the desktop and drag it in. The images pop right in, and you can even add a caption just by typing right into the article. So that looks pretty good. I think we're ready to publish. So we can just go up to the Publish button, and then remember what I said about publishing to your default section if you wanted to show up in For You. So let's publish it to Top Stories, which is our default, and then let's also publish to Honeycrisp because that's what this article is about. And we click publish, and that article will be published into Apple News. Alright. So you can see it's really easy to publish, and this is what the articles will look like on your devices. Beautiful, formatted perfectly for iPhone and iPad automatically. You can see at the bottom we even have a more from this channel automatically added to the end of this article. So a few things to think about when you're authoring using the web tool. First, choose a striking cover image. Great imagery drives users into your article. Use a consistent methodology for fonts and for themes. You want to have an identity for your channel that you follow regularly without changing it up on users. Try to include images throughout the article. This is really true for any Apple News format article. Use imagery and, and multimedia. Also try to use pull quotes and embedded links. You know, use all of the tools at your disposal in the authoring tool. Alright. So that's the authoring tool. Let's talk a little bit about the API. We're just going to touch on this briefly. So Apple News offers a RESTful HTTP API. This is great for medium to large publishers with existing CMS' that they want to plug directly into Apple News. It provides functions like read, list, create, update, search, and also offers plug in support. So if you want to know more about this, if you have specific questions or are having issues getting set up with the Apple News API, please attend the labs that we have a lab today, and we also have one on Friday as well. We'll have Apple News engineers on hand to answer any questions you might have. Alright. Third, let's talk about plug-ins, the third way you can get content into Apple News. So WordPress is one of the plug-ins we offer. We actually offer several of them, and the published Apple News plug in is a really easy way to publish articles directly into News from WordPress. It's also one of the most popular integrations we have today. And so this is what it looks like in WordPress. As a, WordPress is a nice simple authoring interface, and there's an Apple News section off to the right side that gives you many features you need to publish in Apple News including choosing which section, adding a pull quote, and, and other features. So it's really simple and very integrated. We also support publishing directly from Drupal, which is a content management software system that many websites that you use every day are powered by. And so you can publish directly from Drupal and Apple News. And today we also announced that Craft cms is also integrating with Apple News, and you can publish directly from their system. It's very exciting. And then next, I'm really thrilled to announce in this session that we have a brand-new Apple News integration with Squarespace. And so Squarespace, as you guys know, helps anyone build beautiful websites online. The Apple News integration lets Squarespace customers really seamlessly publish into Apple News and share their brand with the world, and, of course, because of Squarespace, it's really beautiful and easy to use. So, it's a really exciting integration. We're thrilled to, to have them on board. So integrations of these four platforms make it really easy to publish into Apple News using the tools you already use every day instantly. So I really urge you to go check them out if you use any of these. So next let's talk about making money off your articles and channels in News. So News makes it really easy to generate revenue using ads. Now as a publisher, you're able to sell ads in a few key places -- in your channel, in articles, and between articles. And so one of the great things about monetizing in Apple News are the business terms. So if you sell your own ads, you get to keep 100 percent of the revenue. And for the inventory that you didn't sell, you can have Apple backfill, and keep 70 percent of the revenue. So it's a, a really great, a great way to make money. One note, though, is that ads in Apple News are only available for articles delivered by API at this time. So a quick look at some of the ad formats that are available in News today. So we've got standard, we've got double, we have large ad format, mrects in articles, interstitial. This is when you're swiping between articles in your channel. We also have sponsored native ads. And then video ads, if you have video content, and this is what they look like on iPad. So they're really simple, and they really enhance the content. So a few things to think about when you're monetizing and using ads. Avoid some common mistakes. Keeping, keeping an eye on the settings that you have for your ads. If, for example, you've booked a campaign for, for double ads, and you have mrects in your articles. Those, obviously, aren't going to deliver, and so you want to make sure that you're not making any little mistakes like that. You also should enable backfill where you're not planning on selling ads, but you should really sell your own ads if you can. That's the best way to make money in News today. Also, we also give you the ability to exclude certain categories of ads in your channel, but if you exclude too many, you're going to end up with too low of an ad supply, and so only exclude where you need to so you don't cut yourself out of revenue. You can also experiment with larger ad formats. We found out the larger ad formats have much higher click-through rates. So think about things like the interstitial ads. And then consider video free role if you're finding that users are engaging with your video content. And so we have a tool that's made for managing your ads which is called Workbench. And so you can do a couple main things with this. First, you can monitor the News revenue for the campaigns you already have set up. It's really easy to keep an eye on things there, and you can also set up campaigns. You can book, manage, report on individual campaigns right from Workbench. It's a really simple and intuitive tool. Next, analytics and insight. So we offer powerful analytics tools in News. Once you've started delivering articles, you can get some great insight on how your content is performing, which articles are doing better than others, how your traffic looks like over time. It's a really great exclusive tool for Apple News Format Publishers. We offer a dashboard that gives you great at-a-glance insight on the content performance, and if you're a power user, you can download the raw data via CSV, but Apple News Format only. This is what the analytics dashboard looks like. This is a view of channel data, and so you can see these are how many unique viewers this particular channel has over the course of a few days. So it's a really nice, rich way to get a, a, some sense at a glance of how your channel's doing. You can even see at the bottom we have a, a list of the best performing articles in a given channel, which you can sort by several vectors. And here's a chart for, for a specific article, and so this one shows shares for a given day, and you can see that they're split up based upon share method. So you can really get a sense if your users' sharing via Facebook or Twitter or messages or mail, and that can help you reach out to them. And then, of course, if you have an existing analytics platform, and you want to pull the data from Apple News into it, you can download the CSV from the analytics tab right from News Publisher. So we've talked about a lot of different vectors of Apple News. Let's talk a little bit about how you can make your content successful in Apple News. So there are lots of ways you can drive readers to your channel. We're going to cover three main ones right now. So, first, you, you want to link to your channel from wherever you can and drive traffic to it. Use the promoted articles feature, which I'll show you. And then use conical URL's, and we'll talk about what that is in a minute, too. And, in addition, we have a link at the end of the presentation to our Marketing Guidelines page. There's lots of information about how you can, can promote your channel outside of News. So getting the word out about your channel is critical, and make it really easy to get the link to your channel, you just go into News Publisher under the channel info tab, see that there's a shared link link. So you click on that, and it brings up a dialogue where you can just copy your link and then share it with the world. So we also have a promoted articles features, and so what this does is when you promote an article, it will ensure that every user sees that article at the top of your channel when they visit it. And then when they come back, that article will start to move down as you deliver more articles, but it will ensure that everyone sees it at the top of your channel at least once. And it also, make sure it appears in the more from section at the bottom of articles that you delivered. You can promote up to three articles per section. It's really easy to promote. You just click on the little star next to an article, and then it moves up to the promoted articles section in News Publisher. So you can always see what you have promoted at a given time. So a great way to add some visibility to certain articles. Alright. So, finally, conical URL's. It's really easy to share in News. You can just swipe and tap to share. In iOS10, we've made it even easier. You can, we have a share icon on every single article. So users will be sharing a lot, and you want to make sure that users can get to your, your articles no matter which platform they're on. And so conical URL's are essentially a link back to your original website. So if you have a website, and a user shares an Apple.News link, if you included a conical URL when you delivered your article, if a user visits that link on a Mac or other non-iOS device, it will redirect them to Safari to your original web page. So it's a great way to make sure that users can read your articles no matter what platform they're on. And so it falls back if you're on non-iOS. And this is an example of an Apple.News link, and then its accompanying conical URL. If you don't have a conical URL, users will see this screen, which isn't an ideal screen. And so if you do have a website, you should include your conical URL so users can view it on any platform. Alright. So some of the best practices overall for publishing in Apple News. Write great stuff. Try to check for errors and typos and things like that. If you have errors or problems with your text, it makes it harder for us to classify and then recommend it to users. So really make sure you're writing the best quality you can. Deliver high-resolution images and use galleries. Nothing drives engagement like great visual content. Use Rich Text and pull quotes, animations and parallax. Anything else that Apple News Format lets you do and be creative. There are so many interesting cool tools you can use. Dig around in the documentation, and see what else you can do. We really recommend that you spend some time creating great, great articles. And then use Apple.News when linking, but use conical URL's when you can. And then we also recommend having a somewhat consistent publishing cadence so users know what to expect if you're publishing on a regular basis. They'll come back to your channel on a regular basis as well. And so Apple News is very much an Apple app, and we love great, beautiful, and inspired stories, and we have many actual humans on the Apple News team, the editorial team who go through and look for amazing Apple News format content. They're looking for the best stuff to feature, and so we encourage you to be creative and ambitious with what you publish, and if you're doing great engaging Apple News Format stories, our editors may notice, and they might promote you and help you find the new audience that you wouldn't have otherwise found. So a few places we do this are in top stories, in our new Featured Story section in iOS 10, in the Explore tab, in the recommended widget, and for you. We also have an Apple News Twitter account where we tweet out some of the best articles that have been published throughout the day, and then we have a weekly e-mail that we send out to many, many users, and it's another great venue to be discovered. So some homework to do. So first you want to sign up for Apple News Format, create a channel, and then start publishing articles using either your CMS via the Apple News API, download and set up a plug in, or you can author in News Publisher. So this is more information about some of the links and other places in, in this link. And then there's also a related session on Friday. This is an amazing session dedicated to teaching you how to create incredible Apple News Format articles. So I can't recommend this session highly enough. Casey and Dan will help you make standout stories that really engage and delight your users. They use some really cool stuff. So I highly recommend checking this one out. So thanks, and I hope you're having a great time at WWDC. 