 Hello and welcome. I'm Lindsay Verity from Advertising Platforms and I'll be joined by my colleague, Carol Hsu, and we're here today to tell you what's new in Search Ads. Search Ads was first introduced to the App Store in the U.S. in October 2016 as an efficient and easy way for you to promote your apps directly in App Store search results so customers could discover your apps while protecting their privacy. Search Ads Advanced has since expanded to the App Stores in the U.K., Australia, New Zealand, Canada, Switzerland, and Mexico. In December 2017, we introduced Search Ads Basic to the App Store in the U.S., a minimal effort cost-per-install offering that's fast become a favorite of developers worldwide to promote their apps on the U.S. App Store. And the response to Search Ads from developers of all types has been incredible. Postsnap, a U.K.-based photocard app has used Search Ads to expand their offering to new markets and they told us Search Ads has given us a huge increase in high-value users in multiple regions. Now we're using Search Ads to help us launch other apps too. And JoyTunes, creators of instrument learning apps, are seeing incredible results. They say the quality of users is so good that the numbers upgrading from free to subscription is double that of any other pay channel. And, for Playtika's World Series of Poker, it's the quality and engagement of users that matters and they said Search Ads is an extremely powerful product that has brought high-quality users and engagement rates 10% higher than the average. It's been really great and wonderful hearing these stories and so many more like them. And so, today, I'm excited to announce that this summer, Search Ads Advanced is coming to six more app stores. Thank you. Japan, South Korea, Germany, France, Italy, and Spain, giving you even more opportunities to reach high-intent, high-quality users in more of the markets you've told us are most important to you. And, what's more, we'll be introducing Search Ads Basic to all 13 App Stores where Search Ads will be available. And we've worked hard to make sure that Search Ads Basic remains a simple, easy, effortless way for you to promote your apps across multiple app stores. Let me show you how easy it's going to be. Imagine I'm a developer and I want to start to promote my new app, NoMoss. I simply select the app from the drop-down list and note that I know see an ad example on the right and I'm also presented with a list of the app stores where Search Ads is available and also where my NoMoss app is available too. I want to permit my app in as many app stores as I can and so I'm going to leave all of those selected. Next, I enter my monthly budget, which is a single budget across all of the app stores where my app promotion will run. My monthly budget for NoMoss is $5000. And, finally, I input what is the maximum amount I'm willing to pay for an install. Now, note Search Ads is recommending a maximum cost-per-install of $1.50, which is based on what it knows about my app and also what similar apps are willing to pay for an install, so I'm going to take that recommendation. I then save and I'm taken to my dashboard where I'll check back later to see the results. I can now see confirmation that my new app promotion has been saved and it should start running soon. From my dashboard, I can also add another app that I want to promote and I can also make changes to any of my existing app promotions. So, I am currently running promotions in the U.S. App Store for my LightRight app and I'd like to expand that to more app stores. To do that, I simply click on the edit button at the top of the apps card and my LightRight app is only available in 10 of the app stores where Search Ads is offered, so I'm only presented with those 10 options. Now, I can pick markets individually, Canada and France, for example, or I can select all. I save. And I can now see that my app is being promoted in 10 of 10 available app stores. Now, because I'm promoting my app across more app stores, I also want to increase my monthly budget to enable me to reach more users and achieve more installs, so I'm going to change my monthly budget from $1000 to $3500. My change is saved and I'm done. It's really that simple and we can't wait for more of you to try it. And that was Search Ads Basic. So, let's talk about Advanced and, more specifically, new creative options. Developers have told us they love the ease of Search Ads Creative and how we automatically create the ads using the metadata and imagery you already provide for your App Store product page. And App Store customers respond really well to those ads because of their noninvasive appearance and because they're an accurate representation of what they can expect from the app's experience. Since February, you've had the option to add up to 10 app screenshots and 3 videos on your App Store product page. And just last week, we were excited to introduce our newest Search Ads Advanced feature, Creative Sets, giving you the ability to leverage these additional App Store assets to create more ad variations to help you better align your ad group keyword themes with specific audiences. Now, let me turn it over to Carol, who's going to tell you more about how Creative Sets work and give you a demo. Thanks, Lindsay. As Lindsay just showed, you can use Creative Sets to display different app previews in screenshots that align to keyword themes or specific audiences. Since Creative Sets uses App Store approved assets, this ensures the best user experience. I'm here to show you how it's done. Before we begin, imagine I'm a developer and these are all of the assets that I've uploaded to App Store Connect for my app, TripTrek. TripTrek is an app that lets users document every step of their travels and treks. The first three assets will be used in my default ad. The default ad matches what shows in organic search results; however, there are 2 specific keyword themes that I want to focus on with my Search Ads campaigns, fitness and mapping. I can use Creative Sets to choose the assets that best align to those themes. Let's go through the steps of how I do that by adding Creative Sets to my Search Ads campaigns and ad groups now. Here I am, already logged into my Search Ads account. And I'm on the campaigns view. Let's go ahead and create a new campaign together. I'll start by clicking Create Campaign, choosing my app, TripTrek, the storefront that I want to promote it in, and I'll give it a campaign name. Let's call this one Active Travel. I'll assign a budget and for now I'll skip over the daily cap and the campaign negative keywords. We'll go ahead and create the first ad group in this campaign. I'm going to call it fitness to match the keywords that I plan to bid on. I want this to run on both iPad and iPhone, so I'll leave that setting as is. And since, of course, I want this to run all day every day, I'll leave the ad scheduling alone for now. And I'll enter a default max CPT bid. I'm going to leave Search Match on so that Search Ads automatically matches my ads to relevant searches. And I'm going to choose from some of the recommended keywords some of the keywords that match my fitness theme. Maybe we'll go with hiking tracker, hiking trails, activity tracker, and step counter. And then I'll add a few more of my own. How about fitness tracker and fitness challenge, since that's one of the features in my app. Since I want my ads to show to all users, I'll leave the audience settings alone for now too. Here I can see a preview of the default text ad and the default image ad, which shows alongside the ads from my Creative Sets and matches the organic search result. But, since I want to use assets that are more closely aligned to my fitness theme, I'm going to create a Creative Set for that, so let's go ahead and add one now by clicking Add Creative Set. I'll name this Creative Set Social Hiking and choose the localization language. The set of languages depends on the storefronts that I'm promoting in and on the localized assets that I submitted to App Store Connect. I'll leave this as English for now. Next, I need to choose the right combination of assets to create an effective creative set. Here I can see all of the screenshots and app previews from the available set of assets on my app product page organized by display size and in the order that I submitted to App Store Connect. I'll only see the display sizes that have enough localized assets to satisfy a Creative Set. In App Store Connect, I had elected to use the 5.5-inch display, which is why I don't see any other iPhone display size assets here. If I'm having trouble remembering which devices are which display size, I can go to the upper right-hand corner and click on View Device Display Sizes to see that information. I'll go ahead and close this now. If I hover over an asset, an icon appears in the lower left-hand corner and I can click on that to get a closer look. I can also easily click through to see the other assets as well. Let me close this now and choose the assets for my Creative Set. For the iPhone 5.5-inch display, I have all portrait assets, so I need to select at least 3 in order to complete my Creative Set. I can see which of my assets are already being used in the default ads by this label here that says default on the first few assets. I'm going to choose assets that are different from the default ones and that are aligned with my fitness theme. Here we go. These look good. And then for the iPad 12.9-inch display size, I have all landscape assets, so I need to select at least one of these in order for my ads to show on iPad. I'll go ahead and pick this one for now. Once I've chosen assets for each display size, I click save and see that my creative set has been added to my ad group and now I'm ready to start my campaign. The Active Travel campaign now appears on my campaigns view and that's how you add a Creative Set to a new campaign and ad group. Next, let me show you how to add a Creative Set to an existing campaign and ad group. Let's go into my Navigation campaign. And from there, let's go into the City Maps ad group and I'll click on this new Creative Sets tab. This is a brand-new view in Search Ads where I'll be able to see not only how my Creative Sets are performing, but also how the default text ad and the default image ad are doing. I currently only have the default ads running and I don't have any Creative Sets yet for this ad group. So, I'll add one now by clicking Add Creative Set. Let's go ahead and name this Creative Set Mapping Features to align to my mapping theme. And I'll leave the localization language as English again. And for the iPhone 5.5-inch display size, I have all portrait assets, so again I need to select at least 3 to populate my ad. In this case, I'm going to choose more than 3 assets, including some that are already used in the default ads, and let Search Ads automatically create the various combinations of ads from all of these assets. Search Ads uses machine learning to continuously optimize to show the best performing ads. Since I'm only interested in testing ad variations for iPhone at this time, I'm going to elect to use default assets for iPad, which means only the default ads will show on iPad. I click save and now I've added my first Creative Set to this ad group and I can create up to 10 Creative Sets per ad group. I can return to this view at any time to check how this Creative Set is performing versus the default ads. So, that's how I added Creative Sets for my two keyword themes, fitness and mapping. I hope you'll give this a try yourself. Now, let me hand it back to Lindsay. Thank you, Carol. Thank you. So, to summarize, Creative Sets use App Store approved assets, so it continues ensuring a really great customer experience. And now with more ad variations, you can more closely align your ad images to specific keyword themes for audiences and our machine learning ensures you'll always achieve the best results. It's been great sharing these updates with you today. Just to recap, Search Ads Advanced is coming to 6 more markets this summer and Basic will be coming to all 13 App Stores where Search Ads is available. Creative Sets are available now, so if you're a Search Ads Advanced user, start experimenting with different ad variations and see how they can further improve the performance of your existing campaigns. And we really love to hear from you on your experiences with this new feature. As always, you can learn more at our website, searchads.apple.com. Thank you so much for listening. It's been really great sharing this with you today. 