 Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the 2015 Apple Design Awards and welcome your host for this evening, John Geleynse. JOHN GELEYNSE: Well, good evening. It is -- or good afternoon. It's still afternoon, actually. It is great to be here. It's a great moment to end off this day. I know it's been long, many of you have been waiting in lines around the building to get into the Keynote, and that was a blast. The Keynote was a blast, too. And then you came into -- you got your lunch, then you had State of the Union, and that was a great session. And now we want to finish the day by taking a moment to celebrate the work that some of you have done that's been extraordinary. Many of you do -- all of you do extraordinary work, but there are some that stand out from the rest, and we want to take a few moments to just celebrate some excellence in software design. Now, to begin this evening and this ceremony, I want to just kick off with a video, which is a retrospective of the winners from the last 14 years. You know, time flies; doesn't it? How many of you are familiar with so many of those apps? You played with those games. You played with those productivity tools, some of those design tools. And I had to demo every one of them on this stage over the years. And this is just some of those that came -- that you saw a moment ago coming through for the last 14 years. Those 14 years represent 14 years of Design Awards since OS X was announced, Mac OS X entered the stage, and we had developers creating apps right from day one. And then, of course, the App Store came and iOS and everything that we've known since then. So many of you might be familiar with the most recent ones that were shown, and if you just take a look at this list -- and this isn't to pick off the best of the 14 years -- but these are some notable ones that I just wanted to highlight for a minute. You know, Starry Night Backyard, I remember showing that off. That was incredible in the first days of Mac OS X. Macnification, this great app for science. Delicious Library 2, this whole genre of apps that came out in the early days of Mac OS X that redefined the experience for so many of us and actually forced -- well, not forced -- but got people excited to purchase a Mac just to use those apps. MLB.com At Bat. Flight Control. Who didn't play Flight Control in the first days of the App Store, right? Paper for scientific research, and then Monument Valley, Infinity Blade, incredible apps. What's interesting is that these apps have set the standard for so many things; right? They've set the standard for the user experience that we expect on these platforms. These folks were pioneers in many ways, not just these apps, but the apps that showed up across the last 14 years. And I think the -- what's really cool way to think about it is that in so many ways, each of the winners each year stood on the shoulders of the winners from the previous year. Because so many of these apps defined a new standard, a benchmark in performance or in usability, and they inspired the rest of you, inspired so many people to go off and create the next great thing. Now, these apps every year we've judged the apps with the same set of criteria, basically. We've looked at delightful apps. These are apps that invite people to play or get real things done; right? They are satisfying; they are rewarding. We've always looked for innovative apps, winners that have this spark of brilliance that it's hard to define, but you know it when you see it. There's state-of-the-art apps that are modern. They are platform differentiating. They're high performance; they have high-end capabilities, and they are superprecise. We look for apps that are engaging. Engagement means that people keep coming back to use these apps. Some of the games that were shown, some of the productivity tools are things that we can't live without. We can't live without playing these games, and we keep coming back to them again and again. We look for apps that are enabling. And great Apple Design Award-winning apps that are enabling allow you to do things that you could never do before in new ways. And lastly, we look for designed apps. These are apps that are deeply considered, that are familiar, they're appealing, they're attractive, and they're super intuitive to use for the people that they were created for. So, a quick summary of how we pick the apps. We've always picked them in basically the same way. We've always used essentially this set of criteria, and this is the criteria that we used for this year to pick tonight's winners. I'd like to invite my colleague, Shaan Pruden, on stage to award tonight's winners. SHAAN PRUDEN: Hello. This year we will be honoring ten apps from categories across the App Store, but first we wanted to take a moment and honor two students among our scholarship winners. JOHN GELEYNSE: Now, the students we are about to award are scholarship winners for this year, but in the process of looking at the scholarship apps, we discovered some apps that they, themselves, had also written for the App Store, and we were pretty impressed with some of these apps that were on the App Store by these scholarship winners. So the two awards tonight are going to go to developer scholarship winners who have an app on the App Store. SHAAN PRUDEN: And our first student winner is Elementary Minute by Klemens Strasser. The idea for the app came to Klemens in April 2014 while sitting in his room thinking about the possibility of having a quiz on his wrist. Since there wasn't an Apple Watch yet, Klemens developed it for the iPhone. SHAAN PRUDEN: Congratulations. Here you go. Elementary Minute is a fast-paced trivia game where you are presenting with statements on topics that include math, geography, and famous people. Quickly swipe up or down to decide if the statements are true or false. This app was created by Klemens, who is a computer science student at Technical University in Graz, Austria. JOHN GELEYNSE: Austria, right. Big cheer down in front here. We Picked Elementary Minute as a student Design Award winner because we loved the design, it was super simple, and it was one of the first games that came out for Apple Watch. It's built, obviously, on UIKit and those sorts of technologies. It's integrated with Game Center, and it has a clever two-game mode. You can do a quick five-second quiz, trivia quiz on your wrist, which is perfect for the Watch, and you can do a one-minute quiz both on Apple Watch and on iPhone, and we just thought that the way this was done was really well executed, so congratulations. SHAAN PRUDEN: And that's Elementary Minute. Our other student Award this evening goes to jump-O by ByteBrushers. Founded in 2013, ByteBrushers is a two-person game development team located in Brazil. In 2012, Victor took a game development course, and a year later, he convinced Gabriel to attend the same course. One day while discussing what it was like when they were bullied as kids, they decided to create a game that reflected their experience. SHAAN PRUDEN: Congratulations. Jump-O is a minimalist game where you play Roundy the circle, overcoming the dangers presented by the squareish world. It was created by two university students from Brazil and features beautiful hand-drawn puzzles. JOHN GELEYNSE: You know what's really fun for us actually at Apple is these folks took some of the iOS training courses that are in Brazil and gained some experience there to build this game. We picked jump-O as a student Design Award winner because of its unique minimalist design, as Shaan mentioned. It's built on Game Center, it uses Sprite Kit for scene management and game physics. The input of the game is super simple. It's tap and device motion. And it's got great responsiveness, 68 worlds, 48 levels, just a really fun game that we thought was just really, really well done, and one of those games that seems easy to learn but it's hard to master in that genre. So congratulations, great work, guys. SHAAN PRUDEN: And these are our two student winners. Now let's move on to the Design Award winners. Our first winner is an imagination-stirring puzzle. It is Shadowmatic by Triada Studio Games. Triada Studio was established in Armenia in 1993 as a computer graphics and animation studio, and they successfully work on TV commercials, visual effects for movies, and various other animation projects. In 2007, they thought about branching into video games, began building a game engine. The four-person game team started work on Shadowmatic in March 2012. SHAAN PRUDEN: Shadowmatic is a unique twist on shadow puppets. I don't want to stand in their way. Rotate abstract objects in a spotlight to find recognizable silhouettes in the projected shadow that are relevant to the surrounding environment. JOHN GELEYNSE: All right. So we picked Shadowmatic as a winner since it's ornately crafted -- bit of feedback -- super imaginative, and really well executed. And I'd like to show this to you now. So let's get into the level -- let's turn it off. Let's get into the main menu. So what you see here is just there's device motion that's affecting the view into this main menu. I can interact with objects, which is no big deal, but I am just showing you the attention to detail that's even at this level. And straightaway you hear this ambient sound track, and it's a beautiful sound track throughout the game, and it's available for purchase on iTunes even. So let me just go into this second level here and show you how this works. If you play the game, you already know. If you've not played the game, this is a good level to start at to show you how it all works. So basically what we are doing is taking one of these objects here, which is represented at various levels with ceramics and metal and wood and all kinds of different materials that are beautifully rendered in the scene, and you take one finger to rotate it around, and you take two fingers to twist it. And essentially, what you are trying to do is figure out what, you know, shadow it is that you're trying to build on the wall. So I am going to rotate it slightly, looks like I am getting some kind of a handle there. And you'll notice on the bottom of the screen there's some dots that may light up here soon if I get close to what it is that I'm -- yeah, as soon as I get close to the puzzle I am trying to solve, I get this feedback on these glowing dots at the bottom. And so now I think I am pretty close to something that looks like a teapot, so there we go. I get the six dots, and I figured out this puzzle. And every level is like this, and obviously, you're timed. As you go up through the levels, it gets more and more complicated. We love the parallax effect that looks like you are looking into a window in the scene. We love the high-resolution rendering, the high fidelity of the execution in the app, and we think this app totally makes an Apple Design Award winner. So congratulations. SHAAN PRUDEN: Available for both iPad and iPhone. Our next winner is a delightful education app. It's Metamorphabet by Vectorpark. Vectorpark is the one-person interactive development studio of artist Patrick Smith. His educational background is in painting. But soon after graduating, he discovered he could combine his particular visual imagery with his lifelong love of animation to create responsive, immersive, and dreamlike experiences. Metamorphabet launched on the App Store in February 2015. SHAAN PRUDEN: Metamorphabet is a playful, interactive alphabet for all ages. Poke, prod, drag, and spin objects to reveal surprising vignettes, where letters are magically transformed into words. We picked Metamorphabet for its outstanding creativity, convincing physics, smooth animations, and exploratory design. I want to show this to you now. So pick the first letter. Right from the start you see this torn fabric effect, which is the beginning of the animations. I tap on these letters, and they start to interact. I am simply tapping, pinching, zooming, whatever I want to do, whatever the child would want to do, whatever the student of letters would want to do, and you get these scenes that reveal as you interact with the letters. So as I start to stroke the A and move upwards, I now get the word Arch, and the narrator would tell me that word. It begins with A. As I play with the scene, suddenly it starts to move. I get this effect of ambling. So you can continue to play with these letters, and you learn more and more words that begin with that letter. And kids, students, you know, learning English as a second language, whatever, are going to learn these characters and want to keep coming back to this game. Let me just show you the G. My last name starts with G, I like the letter. Let's go in. We tap on it a few times, it goes three-dimensional. I pinch on it, it becomes a guitar. You can look at the attention to detail here because I can play individual strings, but if I start to strum the guitar, a garden begins to grow. Kids just love this stuff, right? It's just surprising, unexpected, and I can pick these flowers, and they turn into ghosts, which again begins with the letter G. And that's just an example of the nature of this app, which is just this bright, cheerful app with super-great -- you know, with fun sound effects crafted by one person. Congratulations. SHAAN PRUDEN: Available on the Mac, iPad, and iPhone. Next up, we have a winner in the finance category, and it is Robinhood by Robinhood Markets. Robinhood's story began almost a decade ago at Stanford University, where cofounders were roommates and classmates. To inspire a new generation of investors, they built a brokerage from the ground up, allowing them to eliminate commissions altogether. Since November's launch, their team of 30 has introduced hundreds of thousands of people to investing, with 25% of their customers being first-time investors. SHAAN PRUDEN: Say good-bye to commissions and hello to the future of trading. Robinhood lets you buy and sell stocks for free. It also gives you access to market data and stock quotes in real-time and allows you to build a personalized stock watch list with smart notifications. JOHN GELEYNSE: All right. Let's take a look. So Robinhood distinguishes itself with this clean, content-centric design, beautiful typography, and a design that really does a good job at balancing app branding with iOS design conventions. So right out of the gate, the app just draws you in. The goal of the app is to get more people to invest, and right away, they decide that there's no need to sign up to actually do things in the app. Let's see here. Let me go to my backup. There we go. Because on the main screen, if we simply scroll up, we get a bunch of stock symbols, and these are because the app is using geolocation to come up with these symbols based on companies that are nearby. So let's just tap into Apple, and you can look at Apple's performance over the last little while. You can tap on this chart and see the stock performance. I am not logged in yet. I am not a customer of theirs. I am not a member. I am not -- you know, I haven't done anything here. I am just playing around with this app, exploring with it. I can just tap and drag on the chart, get some great feedback on the values at the top. I can pinch and get a range and get an average value. So that's pretty cool. I can look at stats from the company. I can swipe, do the page effect to go back to a different symbol. Here I am at SPY; right? I am looking through all of this. Right? So I can explore all of these. Let's go back to Apple. And let's say that at this point we are like yeah, wonder what it would be like to buy a stock in this app. So we tap Buy, we decide let's buy 25 shares at the current market price for a total of $3,195. We say that's fine. Review. Robinhood tells us that this is a simulated trade, but if we were doing a trade, we could just swipe up from the bottom. The device vibrates, I get some feedback, and it says that's what it would be like to purchase some stock in this application. And at this point, I can decide this is pretty cool and I am going to sign up and you quickly put in some basic information about yourself, you decide how you are going to fund your transactions, whether it's a checking account, savings account, and then you move on from there and start investing. And Robinhood uses Touch ID for secure authentication, uses SSL encryption to protect your data, and this is just such a great app. We just love the design. So simple, just draws you in, and really well done. Congratulations. SHAAN PRUDEN: Available on both iPhone and Apple Watch. That's Robinhood. Switching gears a little bit, our next winner is a Mac app for creative professionals. And the winner is Affinity Designer by Serif Labs. Founded in 2009 with a vision to develop the next generation of creative software for the Mac, Serif Labs is a passionate team of seven developers with a combined 120 years experience in the graphics design industry. Based in Nottingham, England, the team has been laying the foundation for the Affinity products for the last five years. SHAAN PRUDEN: Affinity Designer is fast, smooth, and extremely precise vector graphics software. Imagined by designers and made exclusively for the Mac, this fresh-faced, multifaceted illustration app lets creatives shine. JOHN GELEYNSE: This app is a seriously fast vector drawing application for creative professionals, and there's no way that I can show you, you know, very many of the features in this. This is a full-featured vector drawing app. One of the cool things that they've got in the -- just to get you oriented is in the top-left corner of the screen, there are three icons, and these represent their personas, basically modes for the app. So here we have the draw persona, which gives us the tools we need for vector drawing. We can shift to the pixel persona, which is the tools for pixel-based editing. Then we can move to the export persona, which allows us to export layers, groups, objects, and regions. Right? Let's go back to the draw persona. This app was written from scratch on OS X and takes advantage of Grand Central Dispatch, OpenGL, Core Graphics, and it's fully optimized for 64 bit and multicore, which means it can do a ton of stuff super fast. So just scrolling around in the document is super quick. I can zoom in to up to a million percent if I needed to. As I scroll around at something like 5,000 percent right now, it's very quick. They've got a great feature where I can go into these split views. Just a second here. Let's go into view mode and go into split view, which lets me split the screen into two views, and one of these views I can actually go into outline view, which means that in real-time, I am getting my object -- I can see the full rendered version or I can go into outline view and select individual objects [applause]. So then I can select them, rotate them, grow them, whatever I need to do, and all of this is live. So I could pick this object here and grow it into this portion of the screen, and you would see the rendering effect right live across the divide. And I can just move this in real-time back and forth super fast. Now, I was talking about how you could do zoom, and I remember seeing that there was a spelling error up here, so I am just going to zoom in here and fix something on my design. Now I am in at about 10,000 percent. And I am just going to change this one edit here, and you know, move back out. And you are looking at this image here. Right? So there's a ton I could show you. They've got a great corner tool, they've got tremendous functionality, and we were just blown away by how modern this app was and how capable it was and how great it was -- and how optimized it was for the most modern Mac hardware today. Excellent work, guys. Thank you so much. Congratulations. SHAAN PRUDEN: That's Affinity Designer available for the Mac. Next up, a game from a classic genre. The winner is Crossy Road by Hipster Whale. Based in Australia, Hipster Whale was founded by Matthew and Andrew. Crossy Road is Andy's first-ever mobile game. The game was popular from day one, but it really struck a cord in schoolyards around the world. Since launching, the team has expanded, and now six people work on Crossy Road. SHAAN PRUDEN: Crossy Road is an endless arcade hopper game. It has a retro feel but with updated twists. As you hop over endless freeways, railroads, and rivers you almost don't mind getting run over because the animations for collisions are absolutely hysterical, as you will see. JOHN GELEYNSE: Great. So Crossy Road -- let's go to the iPad -- has this -- you know, it's got this addictive balance between a casual puzzle and arcade game and, you know, if you haven't played this game you are missing out big time, but if you have, you know exactly what this is all about; right? You are this chicken or some crazy character that they've drawn, and you are crossing these multilane roads. Now, in this particular case, I am not the chicken, but let's move anyway. I am tapping to move forward, and I can move left and right. This is the schoolgirl. See how far I can get here. Oh, let's go, miss the train, get out of the way. Whoa. Let's keep going. Oh, she got run over. Okay. I am sorry. Let's try another one. Let's try the chicken, see if the chicken comes up, love the chicken. So you have all these characters that they've created, and there's some really good stuff. Here's the dress, you know, #thedress. There is dark lord, gravedigger, hot shot. Let's go back to one of my favorite ones. I actually own chickens, just the funniest creatures around, so this is a real fun game to play with your chicken. So if you just look at the 8-bit isometric graphics, just the sound. Oh, and if that happens, I can actually share this with my friends and look at the effect. You know, Crossy Road -- I mean, you could play this forever; right? And I know people who get all the way up to 700 and it kills me because the highest I can get is about 70 or something. But Crossy Road is such exciting game play. They have beautiful, gorgeous 8-bit graphics, if that even makes sense, but there's just something about the way you've designed your characters, the artwork. Hilarious collision animations, expressive characters, excellent sound design, and you know what? I think all of that combines to create really great personality. This game has got tremendous personality, which is really actually a great characteristic for an ADA winner. So congratulations. SHAAN PRUDEN: Crossy Road available on iPhone and iPad. Next up, an app in the productivity category. It's by Flexibits, Fantastical 2. Flexibits creates enjoyable and flexible productivity apps for Mac, iPhone, and iPad. Cofounded by Michael Simmons and Kent Sutherland, the seven-person Flexibits team is located around the globe in San Francisco, Boston, New York, Houston, Germany, and Austria. Fantastical 2 launched on the Mac App Store in March of this year. SHAAN PRUDEN: Fantastical is a calendar app that strikes the right balance between features and usability. With natural language creation of events and reminders, beautiful calendar views, and ultra smart event lists. JOHN GELEYNSE: Great. So we picked Fantastical for the beautiful and thoughtfully designed experience they brought to OS X Yosemite. I know that they've worked really hard on this because they have supported prior to this iPad, iPhone, most recently they just came out with Apple Watch, and they have done a great job at bringing the visual style of the app across all of those devices and at delivering something fantastic on OS X. So I want to just show you a couple of features in this app that we think make it really great. First of all, it's super fast. So if you just go to the left side of the screen here, you scroll through all your stuff, the entire -- you know, everything just follows along. You look at the top-left corner, it's whipping across the weeks to indicate the ones that are selected. The right side is moving through your full calendar. And there's just not a hesitation to the app. That's fantastic. We can examine what's going on on a specific day. If you look at the top-left corner here, you have dots below some of these dates. If I point on the dates with dots, and the dots are colored according to my calendar colors, I can see exactly what's going on on those days from which calendars. That's pretty cool. I don't have to collect and examine and go into that day and look at what's happening at that point. Fantastical 2 makes it super easy to add new things, new events or new reminders. They support both reminders and events. So the way to add something new is if you are in the app, you tap this Add button, and now you can use just simple English language sentences, and they have a natural language parser that will just interpret these and translate, you know, and interpret those into the actual event details. And as I type, I want you to watch the extra attention to detail where, as it's parsing, what I am doing, it's going to be throwing down dates and the times into the spots in that field in the form that appears. So let's just do something like meet with Ron tomorrow at 6:00 p.m. for 30 minutes. For example. Boom. And there it is. It knows what tomorrow means, it knows what 30 minutes means, etcetera. The app is localized into nine languages, and the natural language parser works in those nine languages as well. So this is a really great experience across the world for people in many, many countries. You can also add events. If you were in another application, you could just go up to the menu extra and just add stuff up here, so I could do something else, like pick up sushi next Tuesday at 7:00 p.m. Boom. And it throws the date in there, puts it on my calendar, and it's gone. This little guy can be torn off -- I wouldn't do this with the main app running, but for the demo, let me tear this off, and you can have a Mini Window there that's really handy to have sticking around onscreen. The other thing that they do is that they've got -- Fantastical has got multiple calendar sets, and you can create work sets, home sets, vacation sets, whatever sets of calendars you want, and these calendars can have multiple calendars within them, and each set of calendars can be activated at any time. And not only that, you can go in and say I want this calendar to be activated on my arrival at this location. So I get to work, boom, my calendar enables. Or I get home, or I leave home and some other calendar enables. Very cool. So you can see that here when you go into Manage Calendars, you can go through, pick the different ones you've got, and you can automatically activate on a location that you might want. Fantastical does a great job of toggling between these calendars, and it also supports a Today widget. They have Share and Action extensions. They support geolocation. They are deeply integrated with OS X Yosemite, and I just think it's a tremendous productivity app. You guys have done a fantastic job and I think set the standard for what all other Mac productivity apps should be like. So congratulations. SHAAN PRUDEN: Fantastical is available not only on the Mac but also supports iPad, iPhone, and Apple Watch. Our next winner is a utility app with a very unique story. The winner is Workflow by DeskConnect. WWDC scholarship winners in 2014, the three-person DeskConnect team have been huge Apple fans since their early teens. Workflow is a result of a year of work which kicked into high gear after attending last year's WWDC. SHAAN PRUDEN: Workflow allows you to connect apps and actions together to automate the things you do on your device. Drag and drop any combination of over 200 objects to create powerful workflows. JOHN GELEYNSE: Workflow was selected as an Apple Design Award winner because of its extensive use of the iOS accessibility API, and just like a moment ago I said Fantastical set the standard for what productivity apps on the Mac should be like, Workflow sets the standard for what accessibility -- what apps should be doing in terms of adopting accessibility, to enable these apps to be used by people with vision impairment. And I could do this demo, but honestly, it's far more impactful if it is done by a colleague -- a few colleagues of mine from the iOS accessibility engineering team who can really show you how this thing is used. So I would like to invite Ryan and Dean on stage. DEAN HUDSON: All right. My name is Dean Hudson, along with my coworker, Ryan Dour. We are quality engineers on the Accessibility Team, and we're really excited about the accessibility. It's just amazing work that the Workflow team has done in the Workflow app. Apple is very deeply committed to accessibility. We have accessibility in all our products, including iOS, OS X, and now even the Watch. But you know, today I want to talk about VoiceOver in iOS. Now, if you don't know, VoiceOver is a built-in screen reader that allows visually impaired users to access iOS and your apps. So you may be asking yourself, well, how do I use VoiceOver? What's that? I mean -- to use VoiceOver, you really need to know three gestures -- touch, swipe, and double-tap to activate. In a moment, I am going to have Ryan demo those gestures. Let's talk about touch, touch to explore. It's a way for visually impaired users to safely navigate your apps in iOS without activating anything. And so they can get the layout of the app. And to demonstrate that, I am going to ask Ryan to show you touch to explore. Game Center. Double-tap to open. DEAN HUDSON: The second gesture we have is swipe to navigate, and this allows a user to swipe through buttons, UI elements within your application sequentially, either forwards or backwards, with a single finger swipe. Ryan? iBooks. Settings. Extras folder to Workflow. Double-tap to open. DEAN HUDSON: Now, the third gesture we have is double-tap. Now, remember, with VoiceOver on, touching is not going to activate the item. You have to use a double-tap. What's interesting about this gesture, though, is you can have VoiceOver focused on an element and double-tap anywhere else on the screen. And that's very unique. It's very crucial for VoiceOver users because it's hard to find that focus area again. And Ryan? Workflow edit dimmed button. Turns on Workflow editing mode. DEAN HUDSON: So that's VoiceOver, it's awesome, great, we love it, we use it, but it's really only half the story; right? You know, the other half is what you, as a developer, does in your apps to make it accessible. And it's using VoiceOver together with accessibility that makes a great user experience. Right now I am going to have Ryan show the Workflow app with accessibility using VoiceOver. RYAN DOUR: So as Dean said, my name is Ryan Dour, and I am going to take you through Workflow using VoiceOver. First I am going to go ahead and start creating a Workflow. You'll notice that it's a visual button, for me it's going to speak a label. Let's swipe over to our right and see what it is. Select Gallery button to create Workflow button. Creates a new Workflow. RYAN DOUR: I am going to go ahead and double-tap to activate that. Create Workflow. Untitled Workflow. Actions. Back button. RYAN DOUR: I think what I want to do here, actually, I would like to get my current location, then I think I want to turn it into a URL so I can share it with friends. Finally, I think I'll copy to my clipboard, actually, so that it's easy to use in a bunch of places. Let's go ahead and start. I am going to touch the thing I am looking for on the left side here. So I'm going to touch this sidebar. Contact action. Draggable. RYAN DOUR: I am going to pause the speech. Now I am going to swipe my way over to the location that I would like. Get current location action. That's what I am looking for, so I am going to go ahead and drag that over. Dragging. Adding to current locations to Workflow. Search local businesses action. RYAN DOUR: So I have added that first piece. Now let's go ahead and go get that URL. Draggable. Double-tap and hold. Wait for the sound, then drag to the right to add to your Workflow. Double-tap to read the action description. Swipe up or down to select a custom action, then double-tap to activate. RYAN DOUR: By the way, isn't it wonderful that they've added those great hints? They are fantastic. It's basically a self-described app. It's great; isn't it? So let's add it. Okay. I am going to go ahead and do a double-tap and hold and drag it over to the right. Dragging. Added Get Maps URL to Workflow below. Get current location. RYAN DOUR: I know it's in the right place. Let's get that third item. And this time I am just going to touch because I know it's right over here. Copy to Clipboard action. RYAN DOUR: There it is. I am going to add that. Double-tap and hold. Wait for the sound. Dragging. Added copy to clipboard -- RYAN DOUR: Look, I even know the position. I am above it. I am below it. I am going to let go. Hey, I have a complete Workflow. I could run this right now if I wanted to. That's Workflow with VoiceOver. DEAN HUDSON: They did an excellent job. When I first saw the app, I was just like man, this accessibility is cra-cra. This is off the charts [laughter]. It's interesting because VoiceOver users are like any other users. We go to the store, go to the same App Store, look at the same games, applications, prices, and we purchase and download and open your app, it's amazing when we find it's accessible. It just really makes things work out well for us. If you want to know more about how to make your app accessible, you can check out the WWDC app and see when the accessibility sessions are. We also have a couple of labs that you can check out and bring your apps in and we'll check them out for you. Thanks. SHAAN PRUDEN: And that's Workflow, available on Mac, iPhone, and Apple Watch. This next app has a unique spin on driving games. It's Does Not Commute by Mediocre. This Swedish company was founded in 2011 by Dennis Gustafson and Heinrich Johansen, who have known each other for 20 years. Their original intention was to make Does Not Commute a quick minigame, but as they progressed, the game grew and they became increasingly attached to it. While still the only two employees, they have worked with various contractors. SHAAN PRUDEN: Does Not Commute is a strategic top-down driving game. What starts out as a relaxing commute in a small town in the '70s quickly devolves into traffic chaos with hot dog trucks, school buses, and dozens of other vehicles, and you drive them all. JOHN GELEYNSE: All right. So this is the time traveler's paradox in which you are completing these challenges, but as you drive -- as you try to complete the challenges, you are driving these different vehicles, and every time you drive one and maybe, you know, veer off the road or whatever, make a mistake or screw up somehow, it's going to get you in the next level. And so if you succeed well, you are great. If you screw up, you get caught, and it comes back to haunt you because it's basically this time paradox. So here we've got the app, and we go in -- I am sorry. Here we are. There's some really great visual design here that kind of evokes the '60s and '70s. I am on the main level here to start, the simplest level for you if you have not played the game before. What you are doing is you've got to follow this arrow, and you've got 60 seconds to drive 13 commuters to their destinations. So this first car, we'll just tap and drive. At this point now it's just right and left turns. Right. Great. Not bad, 53, took me 7 seconds to do that one. This next one's got to go. Watch the attention to detail as the van kind of leans. There is my first car. I better watch out. Okay. Great. Not doing too bad. The currency in this game is time, so if you ever see a time token on the road, you can just go pick that up. Okay. All right. We are lucky here we are on the second street. Notice it's replaying all of the driving on my previous turns. All right. Now this is where it gets a little screwy because -- whoops. Oh, man. Oh, man. Now, if I screw up, I can hit the rewind in the corner, it backs up. Okay. Here we go. Let's try it again. All right, John, pay attention. Pick up the token. Boom. Oh, we are good. Okay. Not bad. I picked up ten seconds there. Let's go for the next one. Here I am an ambulance. Not bad. That one's good. All right. Let's keep going. Now it starts to get a little scary because I am driving an ice cream truck, I could tip over, and then the ice cream would melt. Okay. We are doing good. Now, notice all of the vehicles I have been driving to date are coming in to potentially haunt me, so you know, I'm doing pretty good, actually, today, so I could cut through here -- or not -- you know. My car is smoking and I am dropping oil. All right. Now here is the school bus, and if we could just get the volume up a little bit on this, this is pretty good because the kids really don't like me as a driver. [ Kids Screaming ] So there you go. And I'm just limping to school here. Kids are having a great time. And lastly, you know, I am scraping the back of that house, flying along here. You get the point. This game is just so compelling. Each of the characters has a personality. The story goes on and on, as you finish the level, you move into a whole different scene. You go downtown, you have different vehicles. And all of your moves are constantly coming back to haunt you, and it's just so impressive. We just loved the visual design of the game. We loved the art in the game. We love the attention to detail. And we think that this is one of the most unique games to come out in iOS this year, and so congratulations. That's Does Not Commute. SHAAN PRUDEN: That's Does Not Commute, available on both iPad and iPhone. The last winner from the game category goes to a company with probably the best name ever. It's Vainglory by Super Evil Megacorp. Headquartered in San Mateo, California, the Super Evil Megacorp team includes 35 developers from Riot Games, Lizard Entertainment, Rock Star Games, Gorilla Games, Playfish, Supercell, and more. Vainglory is their first game and launched on the App Store in late 2013. SHAAN PRUDEN: Vainglory is a multiplayer online battle arena perfected for touch where you outplay real opponents. Fight with lightning-fast controls using powerful heroes to destroy the enemy Vain crystal and claim glory. JOHN GELEYNSE: This is a massive online battle arena game, and it's going to require, of course, multiple players to really come up with the greatest experience and the best demo, and there is only me, not to mention I would probably screw it up, so we decided that we would, instead, get a bunch of people to play, we capture it on a device, and show you the video, and I can just comment on the things that you are seeing in terms of the quality of work that these guys have done. So if we could roll the video. This game has been three years in the making by this small team. The creators are huge MOBA fans, and their goal was to create a MOBA game that they, themselves, would want to play on a touch device. Vainglory uses Metal on iOS and the A8 chip to bring incredible game visuals and a great gaming experience. In terms of visuals, you are getting 60-frame-per-second performance, 1.3 million polygon rendering. Check out the environmental effects. You've got grass and trees moving. You've got particle effects, gorgeous lighting effects. I mean, this game is all about the experience. The highs, the lows, the excitement, the anticipation, the community that's built, the friendships, and the competition. We are just so impressed by this game pushing the envelope in terms of performance on the platform. Congratulations. SHAAN PRUDEN: And now we come to our last award this afternoon. It goes to an app in the music category. I have to say this is the demo I've been looking forward to the most. The winner is Pacemaker by Pacemaker Music. [ Cheers and Applause ] Pacemaker Music is an eight-person company based in Stockholm, Sweden. After the launch of Pacemaker for iPad in early 2014, the team soon realized that their users, predominantly college students, wanted to participate in the party rather than being stuck with DJing the music. To solve this, the Pacemaker team decided to develop an AI DJ, which launched in December 2014. SHAAN PRUDEN: Pacemaker provides a full range of music mix creation apps, everything from instant mobile mixing on iPhone and Apple Watch to live, hands-on DJing with Pacemaker for iPad. JOHN GELEYNSE: Let's take a look. This app is set up to give you the experience of really making DJ fun and personal with your music. This isn't about running a concert for 70,000 fans necessarily. It's more about just, you know, creating a beat and a groove at home maybe with some friends at a party. So I am going to launch the app and pick some songs here, and let's pick this one. Play that. See what it sounds like. We've got sound here. [ Music ] I don't know. That sounds kind of lame. There is something wrong here. Hold on a second. Something's not right. There. All right. That's better. Okay. So let's add another track here. Let's try this one, Mogadishu, and let's move on and add another track here. All right. So this is on iPhone; right? And I can start a track playing [music]. Let's skip to the next one. And it's going to automatically merge the two of these tracks together pretty quickly. All right. So we are in Mogadishu here, and we can turn on the effects. Right on iPhone, we can start doing some cool effects. [ Music ] Okay. I can do a high-low. I can do an 8-bit. Right. Let's move to the next song. It's going to do this autopilot mixing. So you just say move on to the next song. It's got this animation coming in. It's going to analyze the beats, and then it's going to merge these two songs together really nicely. Well, I sped that up a little bit. Sorry. Right, so you see the effect that we've got here. Right? So I can do some white noise in the app. Then you've got that happening on the iPhone. But they actually added Apple Watch support, so you can take your iPhone, stick it in the stereo at home, and now pick up your watch, go dancing with your friends -- let's switch to the Watch here. Let's launch Pacemaker on the Watch. We can add these effects. And it knows exactly which track is playing, and so we can add some white noise. We can stop it. We can add the chop. And you notice see the feedback going right on the watch? It's all timed with the music that's playing right now. I can add the 8-bit effect. I didn't say I was a DJ, but you know, you get the point. And I can apply the low filter effect, and it will dip. And you see what's going on on the watch. That's Pacemaker for Apple Watch and iPhone. Congratulations. SHAAN PRUDEN: Pacemaker also available on iPad, iPhone, and Apple Watch. So those are our winners for the 2015 Design Awards. These apps are from categories across the App Store, plus our two special student winners, and I'd like to invite all of the winners back on stage for final acknowledgment of their great work this year. In addition to the coveted Apple Design Award trophy they receive today, you will notice they all have special Apple Design Award lanyards they are wearing, and we invite you to meet them here this week and learn from these award-winning developers. Teams also receive almost one of everything we make as a prize package. JOHN GELEYNSE: And we just want to thank you for joining us at the end of this long day to celebrate the work that these guys have done, these folks. They have worked really hard to create some really great apps, and we are looking forward to seeing what you are going to make with iOS 9, with El Capitan, with watchOS 2.0 next year. Let's give these folks a last round of applause, and thank you. Have a great week. SHAAN PRUDEN: Have a great week. [ Cheers and Applause ] 