 DAVE VAN TASSELL: Good morning. Good morning. Welcome to What's New in iTunes Connect. I am Dave Van Tassell, Engineering Manager here at iTunes Connect. I am excited to tell you what we have been up to this past year and where we are headed. As many of you have noticed, we started localizing iTunes Connect over the past year. We've added languages such as Chinese, German, Japanese, French, Spanish, Korean. Just this week we added our fourteenth language, Thai. This is a long process, and we are just getting started. We can clap for localization. That's okay. As you sign in to iTunes Connect, we come to our Home page, and I want to start today by talking briefly about a few of the areas we made changes in. We are making changes across the whole site. We don't have time for everything. So let's start with three to begin with. The first is App Analytics. We launched it earlier this year, and it's become the best place to measure acquisition to engagement. And it requires no code from you, all the while protecting your and our customers' privacy. If you have more questions about App Analytics, what it is, how it can help you, and where we are going with that, there's a great session right after lunch, Getting the Most Out of App Analytics, with Tristan and David. I highly recommend it. The second area is agreements, tax, and banking. As you may have heard, we've unified our agreement. With one agreement, you have access to both the Mac and iOS SDKs. You go to the dev portal, sign in, you agree to the single agreement. Come into iTunes Connect, and you set up your tax and banking information just for that one contract, letting you set up paid apps and paid in-app purchases for both Mac and iOS. The third area I want to talk about is resources and help. We are overhauling our support part of the site, and the best part is an integrated search. This will work not only across FAQs and guides, but also the news and announcements for iTunes Connect, both past and current. And to make this even better, we are integrating our guides as web pages as opposed to downloadable PDFs. We are going to move all of this content outside of the iTunes Connect login so you can access it and link to these pages from wherever you want. For the rest of the presentation, we want to focus on two other areas, My Apps and users and roles. Let's start with My Apps. We are introducing a cleaner organization to the tabs inside of My Apps, as well as a pricing redesign, and some TestFlight updates. So starting with the organization. Today iTunes Connect is broken into seven distinct tabs: Versions, Pricing, Prerelease, In-App Purchases, Game Center, Reviews, and Newsstand. And we want to simplify this a little bit. First off, we are going to create a new tab called App Store, and we are going to put in your version information, pricing information, as well as reviews. Then we are going to move all the In-App Purchases, Game Center, and Newsstand features into a tab called Features. Second, we are going to take Prerelease and split it into its two distinct areas: TestFlight for managing your internal and external tester information as well as your TestFlight builds, and also Activity, where you can get information on all of your builds, whether they went through TestFlight or not, as well as your version status history and Resolution Center. Looking more into App Store, in your version information, there's a lot of metadata to get your app ready for the App Store. Some of this information, it changes from version to version to version, such as your What's New text, your description, or your screenshots. Other information tends to stay the same, your app name, categories, EULA. We want to break this into two separate lists, your app info and your version information. Both of these lists will be reviewed with each version submission, but we are going to separate two distinct areas under App Store, App Info and Versions. Next under Versions, I want to talk about version release. When you submit your app to App Review, you decide what happens after it's approved. You can have automatically release as soon as App Review has approved your version. We begin processing for App Store right away and enter Ready for Sale. Alternatively, you can choose to manually release your app. When you do this, after App Review has approved your app, it goes into Pending Developer Release. At this point, you can continue to invite internal and external testers through TestFlight; you can request promo codes, and they will download this new and improved version as opposed to the one live in the App Store; and if you find any critical bugs, you can dev reject your app, fix the bug, upload and submit, and put it back into the system. Whenever you are ready to release your app, you log into iTunes Connect, and you decide at what point it begins processing for App Store and enter ready for sale. We are adding a third new option, which is called Scheduled Release, and for this, you can choose the date and time when your app will move through processing for App Store. So just like manual release, after it's approved, it's going to go into Pending Developer Release, but instead of you logging into iTunes Connect, we'll move it for you at that given date and time. And iTunes Connect is going to look like this under the Version tab. Come in here and select which option of version release control you want. So we now have three choices. Automatically release goes as soon as it's approved. The second is a manual release, you log into iTunes Connect and click "release this version," and the third is a scheduled release, where after approval and after your selected date and time, then we release it for processing to App Store. Let's talk about some pricing updates. Longtime users of iTunes Connect, you know we haven't made a lot of changes to the UI on the pricing section. So along with a general redesign of this page, I want to call out some more subtle features we are adding. The first is in selecting your tier. We are going to add in the customer price into the tier in your preferred currency. What is a preferred currency? This is an iTunes Connect user setting where you can choose which currency we are going to show in that tiered drop-down. We are going to start it based off of your contract location, but you can log into iTunes Connect and change it anytime. Once you've selected your currency, you can view that same tier and all the other currencies. We've also made a change to the All Prices and Currencies section. Here you can select up to five different currencies and see them side by side on the screen, across all of the tiers for these five currencies. With that, I want to invite Jennifer Stuart onto the stage, and she is going to give us a demo of some of these new features in iTunes Connect. Jennifer . JENNIFER STUART: Hi. I'm Jennifer. I am going to walk you through some of the changes we have coming up in iTunes Connect. So I have an app in the App Store, and according to App Analytics, it's doing really well in Italy, but I think I can do even better, and localizing my app will really do the job, so I am going to do three things. The first thing I am going to do is boost my marketing efforts by localizing my app in Italian. The second thing I am going to do is carefully time the release of this new version to coincide with some other marketing efforts I have in place. The third thing I am going to do is set up a special price for the week of this new release. So let's get started. Okay. So we are starting off at the My Apps page here, and I can see - I'm going to go into my apps. I can see my app here, TouchFighter III. I will click on it. As Dave explained, app information has the metadata fields that get updated less frequently, so these fields are now on their own page. Our first task is to create a new localization. I am going to click on the locale here on the right, and that will show us localizations that we have been set up for. You will see that Italian is not in this list, and I can't create it just yet. I will need to create a new version. So on the left nav here, I am going to click on New Version. We get a modal asking for a new store version number. I am going to give it 1.0.3, and then click Create. This will create the new version for my app, and I will also be brought right to the version's specific details. I have my English text ready for What's New. And now I am ready to create my Italian localization. I will click on the locale here and scroll down and find Italian. And that adds my localization. I have my What's New text also for that ready to go. So the next thing I wanted to do was carefully time the release of this new version. So I am going to scroll down to version release, which is towards the bottom of the page. So before we just had the two options, manual and automatic. With manual release, after my app was approved by App Review, I would need to remember to come in on the day I wanted to release my app to the App Store. With automatic, it would release automatically, but maybe not on the exact day I had planned for. So with this new option, I can set up a date and time for when I want it to release, and it will move to Processing for App Store on that date and time. After App Review. So I am going to select July 1 here in the date drop-down. And this is based on my local date and time, just so you know that when you are setting that up for your app. So I think everything looks good here, so I am going to click on Save. And the last thing I wanted to do was set up a special price for this new version's launch date. To do that, I am going to click on Pricing and Availability in the left nav. You will see we have this All Prices and Currencies link on the right. I am going to click and open that up. So I can take a look at all the price tiers and what the price tier will be in each storefront, and I can change what storefronts I'm comparing by clicking on the storefront name at the top. I am going to go and select Italy here to see how the different tiers compare in that storefront. And I can see my proceeds as well. So I think I know which tier I am going to move to for my special price. I am going to close this window. And now I am going to click on Plan a Price Change. And here, under Price, I am going to select Tier 1. And you will see that we have this Other Currencies link here below, and now I can see what this tier will look like, what the price will be, and what my proceeds will be in each storefront for this tier. So again, we have our marketing plan going on for July 1, so I will go ahead and select July 1 here, and we are going to run this special price for a week. So I am going to go and select July 8 and the end date and then click Done. So you can see that the app will go on sale on July 1 and then return to its original price at the end of the week. This all looks good to me, so I am going to go ahead and click Save at the top corner. So that completes all our main tasks. And just so you are aware, everything I've done just now can also be done via XML feed. If you'd like to learn more about how to make these kinds of updates via XML, check out the session called iTunes Connect: Development and Distribution at 3:30 in the Mission Room. There will be a portion of that session that covers this process. Now I will walk you through some additional changes we have in iTunes Connect. I am going to go under Features tab. If I have an in-app purchase that I want to also add a localization to, I can go to Features and In-App Purchases, and this will list my in-app purchases that I have for this app, and I can create new ones by clicking on the plus symbol next to the header, or I can click on the name to add the localization. As well, we have Game Center under Features as well. And here I can see my leaderboards and achievements and create new ones by clicking the plus symbol next to the header. We also have Newsstand in this section. If this was a Newsstand app, I can manage my Newsstand issues there. I can also see the builds I have uploaded under Activity. These are the builds I have uploaded for each version would be shown here. As Dave mentioned, we've also updated the Resources and Help section, so let's take a look at that. So you don't even need to be logged into iTunes Connect now to access this content. There's four main sections here. In the News section, you can read about updates to iTunes Connect and the latest information about the App Store. There's a Video section where I can watch tutorials and feature walkthroughs. You can find style guides, checklists, and sample content in the Guide section. Lastly, look for your answers to your questions in the FAQ area. Most recently updated questions will get badged, so you can easily find those. The great thing is we have a Search field here that will search across all the areas, and you can find exactly what you need easy and quickly. So I am going to type in Trends and see what we got. So you can see we get responses from all the different areas. So that gives you a little preview of what we have coming up for iTunes Connect, and with that, I will give the floor back to Dave. DAVE VAN TASSELL: Thank you, Jennifer. We are excited about these changes that we're making to iTunes Connect. Let's talk a little bit about TestFlight. One person likes TestFlight. There we go. We launched TestFlight last year, and it quickly became the best place to beta test your iOS apps. No provisioning profile is required. We automatically generate the sandbox accounts for your in-app purchase testing. And with the release of Apple Watch this year, TestFlight also supports Apple Watch. And there's two kinds of testers for TestFlight. You have your internal and external testers. I want to talk a little bit about the differences between those. So your first is internal. Internal testers are your fellow iTunes Connect users. They are part of your team. You invite them to TestFlight with their iTunes Connect user name. But when they accept their invitation, they accept it with their personal App Store account. It doesn't have to be the same as their iTunes Connect user name. There's no beta app review for internal testing. For external testers, all you need is an email address, and again, when they accept their TestFlight invitation, they will do so with their personal App Store account, which can be a different email than the one you invited them with. With external testing, we do require beta app review with new versions. What are new versions? Let's talk about that. There are two keys that are important in Xcode when talking about TestFlight, versions, and builds. The first is your CFbundle short version string. This is your version. And the second is the CFbundle version, or your build. So when you select a build to go into external testing, let's go with version 1.0, build 100, this is going to go through beta app review. As you upload and submit subsequent builds to the same version, we ask, have you made any significant changes? And if you haven't made any significant changes, then the beta app review process is much quicker for these builds. Once you are ready to start inviting external testers to a new version -- in this case, version 1.1 -- this version will go through the same kind of beta app review that your initial build on version 1.0 went through. Another difference between internal and external testing is which build is available for your testers. So for internal here, we have version 1.0, and it's the latest build, build 101, that is always available for your internal testers. As we switch to testing version 1.1, the last build we've uploaded, 103, is what's available. If I upload a new build, it will automatically be distributed to the internal testers. Whereas for external testers, you get to select which build they see, so we can start with build 100, move on to build 102, all the while our internal testers were a little bit later on in build 103. I'd like to turn the time over to Jason Gregori. He is going to give us a demo of TestFlight and talk about some new features there. Jason? JASON GREGORI: Thanks, Dave. Hi, everyone. My name is Jason. I am going to give you a quick preview of what's coming with TestFlight in iOS 9. Okay. Let's get started with the new TestFlight tab in iTunes Connect. To get there from the My Apps page, click on your app, and then click on the TestFlight tab. Right away, you can see internal and external testing have been broken into their own separate sections. Not only does this help with clarity, it also allows you to give two completely different versions of your app to your internal and external testers. Here in the internal testing section, you can see the current build being tested, your internal testers, and their current status. After you've selected the version of your app you want to beta test, internal testers will always get the latest build sent to them automatically without beta review. That means once you set internal testing up, you don't even have to come to iTunes Connect at all. New builds uploaded to iTunes Connect just automatically go out to your internal testers. To change the current version you want your internal testers to see, click on the Select link over on the right. Here you can choose which version of your app internal testing gets builds from. Remember that the version number comes from your app's CFbundle short version string, and the build number comes from its CFbundle version. Down below you can see your testers. You can see a little information about them and whether they've accepted your invite or installed your app. You can also add or edit testers from here. Let's add another tester. Everyone eligible for testing but not yet invited to the app shows up here. Remember, you only have up to 25 internal testers, and for someone to be eligible, they must be on your iTunes Connect team. Let's add Eric. After I add and save, Eric will get an invite sent right to his inbox. Over on the external testing side, you'll see your currently testable builds as well as your external testers. The great thing about external testing is that you get a thousand tester slots, and to add a tester, all you need is an email address. There are some new changes to external testing. One, you can now give your external testers a completely different version of your app than your internal testers. Which is great for letting external testers test the latest minor update while internal testers are on the next big release. And two, you can now submit a version of your app to beta review while your external testers continue to test a different version of your app. Okay. Let's look at adding a new version to test. Clicking the Add link brings me to the build chooser. Notice I am specifying exactly which build external testers will get. Let's add this build. We are immediately taken to a submission page for this specific build. Unlike for internal testing, external testers always get What to Test information, an app description, and a feedback email address. Next up, export compliance. Don't you wish you could just skip this page? Well, now you can. Dave will show you later in this presentation. But for now, I will just answer the question. After submitting, we are taken back to the external testing page, and we can see our new build is in review. Notice how even though I have a new build in beta review, my testers still have access to the build they were previously testing. I can even swap out the build for one that's already been approved. Let's add an external tester. I'm going to add my friend Ben. All I need to add Ben is his email address. I want to again point out here that the email address you use for a tester does not have to be their Apple ID. Any email address they have access to on their iOS device is perfectly valid. Once they accept the invite, your app will become linked to their logged-in Apple ID. What this means for you is don't worry about which email address you use. Now, I just save, confirm, and I am done. The invite is sent. Now, you might be asking yourself, where do all the old builds go? I am glad you asked that. [Laughter] They go to the TestFlight build section. The build section includes not just the old builds but every single build you've added to TestFlight. You can view each build's current internal status, external status, and the number of times it was installed. Click on a build, and you can see even more information, including who tested it and detailed technical information. All right. Let's move on to the TestFlight app. Here's an invite for our app. Right in the email, I get this nice, big Start Testing button. Now, if I don't have the TestFlight app, tapping Start Testing will take me to the App Store to install it. Or if I am in a third-party browser or email client, I will get options to install or open TestFlight. Since I already have TestFlight installed, it's going to take me straight into the TestFlight app, where I can view and install the beta, which I will do right now. Since this beta supports Apple Watch, I get this Watch bar app at the top, which lets me install the WatchKit app right onto my Watch right from in TestFlight. TestFlight will support both watchOS 1 and watchOS 2 apps and will install the best app supported by the user's Watch. I am happy to report TestFlight will also auto-install beta WatchKit apps if that's your preference. We are also adding a new screen for incompatible apps. When a tester has a device that doesn't support your app, they'll now get a new screen, which helps explain what's going on. Here's an iPad app with instructions on how to get it. Open TestFlight on your iPad, much more obvious. Another change we are making is adding more control over notifications. Down at the bottom of this page, there's a new Notifications button. Some people prefer to get only email updates, some prefer to get only push notifications, and in the new notifications menu, you can choose to turn push notifications and email notifications on or off on a per-app basis. And there you have it. Back to you, Dave. DAVE VAN TASSELL: Thank you, Jason. I want to recap one of the changes that Jason talked about, and this is about your internal and external testers. The ability to let your internal testers be working on one version -- in this case, version 1.1 -- and your external testers can then be invited to a completely separate version, version 1.0. Some other changes we will be rolling out are about the metrics for TestFlight. Today we support installs, counts across your builds and versions, and we will be rolling out the same metrics for sessions across builds and versions as well as crashes at your build and version level. And all three of these metrics will also be able to show you at the tester level, so you can then see which testers are having the most success and which testers are having the most problems, and you can reach out to them with that same email address they gave you when you invited them to TestFlight. In iTunes Connect, it looks like this. You can see those numbers for installs, sessions, and crashes. I'd also like to talk about some new TestFlight limits. Currently, you can upload two builds a day, and we are going to bump that up to six external builds a day. We also want to increase the number of apps you can have in active TestFlight from 10 to 100. That one was worth clapping about [Laughter]. Build expiration, we are going to bump that up from 30 to 60 days. Internal testers, 25 unique user names per account, we are going to change that to 25 users per app. And then for internal testing, we want to go from 1,000 to 2,000 external testers per app. Today for TestFlight, you can TestFlight all of your iOS 8 apps. Also with Monday's C1 release of iOS 9, you can invite your internal testers to test those apps, and we have Apple Watch support 1.0. Later this summer, we will be extending iOS 9 beta testing to external testers, as well as watchOS 2, and we will begin supporting app thinning and ODR support natively with the App Store infrastructure that you will be using when your customers get their hands on these same apps. Those are our changes to TestFlight, but as Jason mentioned, we have a change around encryption and export compliance. We have added a new tab under Features. Today, when you submit your app, whether it's for beta or for the App Store, we ask, does your app use any encryption? And based on the encryption that you use, we require upload of export compliance documentation. So we are going to add a new plist key in Xcode called ITS app uses nonexempt encryption. Enter False in here, and that will let us know what kind of encryption that you use. If your app does use nonstandard encryption, answer Yes. And then you can go back into iTunes Connect, tell us about the encryption, upload the correct export compliance ERN documents, and we are going to give you a code. With that code, you can enter that into Xcode with the plist key ITS encryption export compliance code, and we will link the encryption you told us about in iTunes Connect with the build that you are uploading, and you can reuse this code across many different builds to let us know the form of encryption you are using. If you change your encryption, log back into iTunes Connect, let us know about it, upload the correct documentation, we will give you another code, and you can use that code with the builds that support this new version of encryption. And those are our changes to My Apps. I want to talk about users and roles, and there's three new features we are going to be introducing. The first is account switching, the ability to use one user name to log into multiple accounts. The second is app siloing, where you can separate which apps different users can see. And the third are some new users and roles to help with these features. Let's start with account switching. As you log in, you have your user name, you log into your account, and as you get access to more and more accounts, you create new user names for each account. With account switching, you'll be able to use a single user name to log into all these different accounts. But with each account, you have different apps that you see, you have different roles. So we will make it so that as you log in and you can switch which account that you want to view, will change those apps that you see. You will get those roles and permissions that you have for the account that you've now moved to. And that's account switching. Every account starts with one user, your admin user. As you start adding more and more apps to this account, you start adding more and more users. Most of these users are technical users, but what you found is you want some users to see some apps and some users to see other apps. So what we are going to do is we are going to separate this into three different areas. We also realize that Technical User is a little bit broad, so we are going to deprecate Technical with a new role called App Manager. This App Manager will be able to manage these apps in iTunes Connect for you. We are going to add two new roles, Developer and Marketer, to help out with this. Let's talk about what these roles entail. In App Manager, they will be able to create users, change pricing, invite new people to these different roles that we have, as well as submit apps for review, both beta and for App Store. The Developer role will be able to do developer kinds of things, upload the binaries, view the crash logs, and view the store metadata in iTunes Connect. Marketing role will be able to actually change that stored metadata in iTunes Connect, upload promo art, as well as request promo codes for the apps on your team. All three of these roles will be eligible for internal TestFlight users, as well as have access to create in-app purchases, leaderboards, achievements, and view Resolution Center. And these are the changes that we are rolling out for users and roles. So what's new in iTunes Connect? We have a new version release control, a new pricing design, separate TestFlight versions for internal and external users, increased TestFlight limits, new encryption plist keys, account switching, app siloing, and new users and roles. And all these features will be coming out later this fall. Now, each year we like to ask App Review if they had a chance to help explain to some developers, such as yourselves, what could I impart on you to help your apps make it through App Review better? And they give us a list. This year they have gone one step better and they have a web page you can look up and see: What are the common rejections? What problems are people are having? Such as your demo account info. If your app requires a login to function, you need to provide that in iTunes Connect beforehand. Or if you have an in-app purchase that requires services to be running before the in-app purchase works, have that ready at app submission time, not just when you want your app to go live in the Store. This is a really great web page, and I highly recommend checking it out. We also have another web page about what makes good information about my app. What makes a good name? What is a good description? This is another great resource for understanding your metadata and filling that out well. And the third page I want to talk about is dedicated just to app previews. We launched this last year, and it's a great way to give your customers a dynamic feel for what your app is before they download it. You want to know what it is and how to get started? Check out this page. Now, for more information, of course, the iTunes Connect Guide is a great resource. The dev forums as well. We have our Evangelist, Mark Malone. If you have any questions, these are all great resources. I want to call out some related sessions. We had one on Tuesday about iAd, as well as one earlier this morning all about app thinning. Later today, Getting the Most Out of App Analytics and iTunes Connect: Development to Distribution will be this afternoon. And with that, I want to wish you a great rest of your conference. Have a good day. 