 SAL SOGHOIAN: Whoa, thank you and welcome to Session 306, Supporting the Enterprise with OS X Automation. I am Sal Soghoian. I am the Product Manager for Automation Technologies at Apple, and I'm excited to be here today. Some days I feel like I'm a dinosaur looking for a tar pit, but today is not one of those days. We're here to talk about automation and how it can be used in production situations, how it can be used within your organization to address some of the tasks and challenges that often come up. And before we begin, I just want to make it clear in our minds that when you talk about an enterprise you're actually talking about people. People are what comprise an enterprise and make it successful, they are the people that come up with the creativity, they are the ones that implement solutions, they are the ones that create solutions. You are those kind of people. You look for a problem, and you look for ways to solve it. So throughout this talk today, I'm always going to look at things from a people perspective, so let's keep that in mind as we look at the enterprise and automation. And specifically when you're creating a solution, or I call them a workflow, there's some strategies that could be useful to follow when you're designing a solution. And the first is use a variety of tools. It's interesting that you have to mention this, but people often get locked into a one-tool concept. Don't solve everything with a hammer because then all of the problems appear to be nails. Use the right tool for the job, don't try to drive a nail with a wrench. You know, use the right tool that gives you the ability to accomplish what you need to accomplish. And, as well, make your workflows modular so that you can take the individual components of a workflow and adjust them or connect them in different ways or use them in other solutions as well. So by keeping your workflow as a modular design it's easier to find the points where there are problems, and problems always appear when you're trying to use a workflow in an enterprise solution. Look for the places that are the bottlenecks, and they usually occur around complexity or a heavy repetition, and you want to identify those places and address them so that your workflows run smooth. And that's because in the end all of our workflows are run by people. And if your solution is really complex and intricate, people aren't going to use it or they won't like using it. But if your workflow is designed logically so that it flows and it's understandable, then people are going to love using it and they'll use it all the time. So those are the basic workflow strategies that we're going to look at as I review some examples of how you can use automation in the enterprise, but there's one more concept I'd like you to pay attention to, and it is to pursue inclusion. Now what I mean by that is this: that the success of an organization depends upon the strategy of and, not or. Many times people get locked into the idea that's often used for hardware that one piece of hardware has to go away in order for another piece of hardware to take its place, and many times that is true, but when it comes to providing solutions, inclusion is really important. You want to use all of the tools that are available to you, and we have two platforms at Apple that really personify this power. And they are OS X and iOS, and they work really well together, and it is through them working together that you get success for your organization. When it comes to being a good partner, OS X is an incredible operating system. It is mature, it has a depth of frameworks that is unrivaled, it has support for all the different connective technologies that you want to use in-house in your organization to communicate and share data back and forth. And when it comes to automation, OS X is unrivaled. We have AppleScript, the English-like language that you can use to control the computer and the applications that run on it, and we've extended AppleScript with AppleScript/Objective-C, that gives it a window into the Cocoa framework so that you can directly talk to Cocoa classes and call Cocoa methods from within AppleScript, so that any of the Cocoa frameworks that provide the power for the OS and all of its apps are available to your script as well. And last OS, we introduced JavaScript for Automation so that if you like working with the JavaScript language or you like a more tight construct, JavaScript for Automation -- or JXA as we call it -- provides you all of the abilities to control applications as similar to the way AppleScript does and it also provides you the window into the Cocoa frameworks, as well. So if you like using JavaScript, you can still accomplish all of the kind of automations you want to do using that as your native language. And another tool that we have is Otto the Automator. Automator is a visual tool for building automation recipes, through a drag-and-drop process where you take the individual steps that are required to accomplish something and you drag them into a file and save them as a workflow. It's incredibly powerful, it works with any language or ability that's part of the operating system, and it handles data translation for you automatically. We're going to see this quite a bit today as we go over some examples. And, finally, because of its heritage and its power OS X has all of the UNIX toolset we've come to rely upon, including all of the different shelves and some of your favorite languages, like Pearl, Ruby, and Python as well. So combined, it's a holistic approach. This is a very powerful set of automation tools for you to rely upon. And today we're going to see how automation can give you the speed, the accuracy, the consistent output, and the scalability that you need when you're dealing with solutions. So let's take a look at three example scenarios. I'm going to keep them simple so that we can examine the principle behind them rather than get lost in any complexity. See, I'm being people-oriented here. The first scenario we're going to look at is how you can create a workgroup image repository, and by that I mean we can have a central computer that is accessible by 40 or 50 people in a local network area by both computers and wireless devices as well, and how we can use automation and the technologies of OS X to make that possible. The second scenario we're going to look at a basic thing that faces everyone who works in an organization, and that's creating documents on time. You know, everybody has challenges of gathering data, and putting it together, and formatting it, and presenting it in interesting ways, and so we can look at how automation can be used to solve some of those issues as well. And, finally, we're going to look at a third example that's new, where you can use the automation technologies in OS X to set up and manage iOS devices automatically. So this is going to be an interesting category for us because it's a new one as well. So let's begin with a workgroup image repository scenario. Now remember I'm talking about setting up a computer that is an image repository, and we're going to be specifically using the new photos architecture and frameworks and application that are part of OS X. And we're going to set it up on a computer, and this computer is going to exist in an environment where you have other laptops and desktop computers that might be running Mac OS X or it could even be running Windows, as well as being in an environment that has mobile devices, whether it's the new MacBook that we just introduced or it's our great iOS devices, like iPads and iPhones. And to accomplish this workgroup concept, we're going to rely on three OS X technologies. The first we're going to use is File Sharing. Now File Sharing is part of OS X basic core structure, and it allows you to set up share points so that other computers can easily transfer files over to your computer. It's been around forever, it's based on SMB and AFP, it's very reliable, it's an established technology. The second technology we're going to look at is AirDrop, and AirDrop is a newer technology that combines Bluetooth with Wi-Fi so that mobile devices can easily recognize and transfer files to a computer. And we're going to use both of those technologies when we address this task. Now you'll notice that in this connective scenario that we have here, where we have the computers and the iOS devices, there's one area that still needs some work in order for all of this to become automated. And it is the transferal of the copied documents or the images that have been provided from other sources into the actual media library itself. And to solve that problem we're going to use a technology called Folder Actions through Automator. Now many of you might not know about Folder Actions, but a Folder Action is a system service that allows you to assign a workflow to a folder so that when items are placed into that folder, the system automatically provides them as input to a workflow that it executes for you automatically. And Folder Actions have been part of OS X since before it was OS X, we've had them since System 8.5 and they're very powerful, and we've done a lot of work on it with the new release and I think you're going to really enjoy using them. So let me show you how easy it is to create a Folder Action. For this we're going to need, for our scenario we're going to need two different Folder Actions, one for the Dropbox folder for the file sharing and one for the Downloads folder that is the recipient of the AirDrop files. And to do that I'm going to open up Automator, I'm going to create a new document, and from the template I'm going to choose Folder Action as the type of Automator file. And at the top we're going to select a folder that is the source folder for the workflow. So we'll select that, and I'll navigate over to the Public folder and then within the Public folder we're going to select the Dropbox folder as the source folder. So any items placed into the Dropbox are going to become the input for this workflow. Now we need to perform some series of actions on those added files, and to do that I'm going to select the Photos category over here and I'm going to drag in the Automator action for importing items into Photos. And I'm running a little bit of a lag -- there we go. And so once you've added an action to the workflow you see its action view. The action view contains all of the controls for the various parameters for that action. So we're going to set some basic parameters for that action, and then it's just a matter of saving the workflow and giving it a name, like Import from Dropbox, very good. And once it's been saved it's automatically installed into the operating system and active. We'll create a second workflow just like the first one, the only difference is its source folder will be the Downloads folder. So that's how easy it is to create a Folder Action that can receive files from network devices. Once that's been done, then any files that are placed into these connected folders will get transferred automatically into our image repository. So let's take a people perspective and see how this looks to a person using this from, like, the Mac side. So if you're running this from the Mac side, you have a Finder window and to connect to the repository shared folder is just a matter of going to the Finder sidebar and connecting that, selecting the Public folder there, and then dragging in whatever images you have onto the Dropbox itself. The computer is running a little slow today, there we go, you can see all the builds. And once you do that you'll get a notification dialogue that tells you you're about to copy some files and you won't be able to see them -- is that okay? You approve that and the files -- the two computers are automatically connected, and the file gets transferred over into the other folder. The Automator workflow gets executed, and the copied image gets added to our image repository. So this is how it looks when you're running this from the OS X side of things through file sharing. Now let's examine the same process, but this time from the viewpoint of using a mobile device. So with your mobile device you connect it, you turn it on, you find the image that you want from your mobile device, you click, you tap the Share button. You wait for the destination to become visible as a network, as an AirDrop target, you select the AirDrop and then the connection is made and the image is transferred over to the computer, and then the Folder Action is triggered and the image is copied into it. So from a person's perspective you can see that this becomes a very easy-to-use operation. This strategy incorporates basic technologies that are part of OS X and File Sharing and AirDrop as well as Folder Actions, and it works with a variety of devices, including computers, Mac computers, Windows computers, and mobile devices as well. Now I know you're asking, well, okay, Sal, wait a second, so when I send an AirDrop over, there's a notification that happens, what happens if there's nobody at the computer, what do you do then? Well, here's another case where automation can solve a problem for you. You can use the Auto Accept AppleScript droplet that whenever a notification is set, it will automatically accept it and continue the process of allowing the image to be transferred over to the media library. All of this is available, you can download the beta version of the photos actions that you saw here and you can follow the instructions on this and as well get the Auto Accept droplet from this location, photosautomation.com. Okay, so that's our first scenario of using automation technologies in a mixed-use environment to be able to solve some problems. The next scenario we're going to look at is how we can automate document construction. Now the thing about using the automation technologies in OS X is that they're very powerful and they act as you, they act on your behalf with all the authority that you have as a user. So you can do all the things that you normally do through automation. You can command and control applications, you can copy data from one place to another, you can create and delete files, you can mount volumes, you can unmounts volumes, pretty much anything that you can do as a user, automation can do on your behalf. And this is incredibly powerful because when you combine that with the fact that we have some great scriptable applications on OS X, then you can really accomplish a lot and create very inventive, useful solutions. So here's a simple example. Let's say as part of your daily or as part of your job assignment, I'll put it that way, every Thursday you have to gather the data about your company's sales, you have to put it into a presentation that you deliver to your teammates every Thursday. And this usually takes quite a while to do because you've got to go gather the data, then you have to transform it from one shape of being spreadsheet into being a chart, then you have to build the presentation. So here's an example of how you can use automation to automate that process. Using Automator, you can create a workflow for yourself that will automatically build a presentation that grabs data out of other files, transforms it into the things you need, and then triggers the sending of it to your iOS device, so that all you have to do is just accept the transfer from the computer and then within a couple seconds you have the presentation ready to go that you can take with you when you have to do your presentation with your team. So this is a simple example of the power of creating a document. So let me show you that, I'm going to create a workflow that does just what we just saw. And this is my desktop that is the Martian sunset, NASA just released this photo, it's totally incredible, it just really makes you feel small in the universe when I look at that. Okay, so I'm going to create a workflow that generates a presentation and incorporates data from a spreadsheet and then sends it to my mobile device that I have over here via AirDrop. So I'm going to launch Automator, and I'm going to create a new document, and let me just zoom this so that we can see together. How is that? Much better isn't it? So when you launch Automator, you'll see that there's a template picker here. For our purposes we're just going to use a workflow that I save into this system-wide script menu so that it's always available for me. So I'll click Choose. Over on the left-hand side is the library of Automator actions, those are those individual nuggets of functionality that you combine together to make an automation recipe. And you can view them by category, as it shows here, or you can even arrange them by application. I'm going to choose application and then go to the Keynote application and click on that. When I click on it, you can see all the actions related to Keynote are available over here and whatever action I have selected has a description that appears here at the bottom that gives me information on how to use it. So let me create a workflow. The first thing I'm going to do is add an action to the workflow area by dragging in here for creating a new presentation. You can see that the action view has various controls and parameters for deciding what kind of presentation I want to create. I'm going to choose a gradient. I'm going to choose its dimensions to be set for a mobile device, and I'll just basically leave it at that. So my first action is to create the presentation. Now when you create a default presentation in Keynote, it gives you one slide that is title and subtitle. So the next step I want to do is to set the contents of the title and subtitle. To do that I'm going to use an action called Set Contents of Default Text Items. I drag it in. You notice that there's a connection made so that a reference to the new presentation is passed to this action. It then knows which presentation to work with. I'm going to set it so that the title of the presentation will be Sales Report, like this. And then for the subtitle I want the current date. And since I want this to be a workflow that I can use over and over again, I'm going to use an Automator variable to dynamically generate the date for me. Over here on the library I'll click the Variables category, and variables are containers of data, they can either be from storing it or dynamically generated. So I'll click Date and Time and then drag in today's date variable into the body field over here. Now you'll notice that it automatically gets added into a list of variables currently used by the document at the bottom. I can set the parameters for how the variable is going to appear by clicking Edit and then choosing a format that I'd like, like this one where I have full month, date, and then the year. So my second slide, my second task, the second action has been to name the presentation and provide a subtitle. The next step is to apply a transition for that slide. So I'll go back to my actions and I'll go drag in the action for setting transition. From that I'm going to choose -- let's do a basic dissolve. I'll set it for about a second and a half on click. All right, now that we've done that, I'll need to create a new slide that I'm going to add my sales data to. And for this slide, I'm going to create one that has a title at the top and I'm going to add it to the end of the slides. So I have a new presentation, I've titled it, subtitled it, created a transition for the first slide, added a new slide. Now I'm ready to add the data that I want to have in my presentation, but this data lives in another file. I have a numbers spreadsheet here that contains the data that I want to bring into my presentation. So I'm going to close that and use an action here called Add Chart with Numbers Table Data, drag it into my workflow, and you can see that the action view has two areas for settings, the Data Settings and the Chart Settings. So we're going to pick the file that I want to use, it will be in my Documents folder, and here it is, ACME Widget Domestic Sales -- bring that over a little bit, like that -- and then I can choose to identify which table in that document. I can use the active table, a selection of the active table, I can use the first table that's on the active sheet, or I can even enter a name for the table and it will find that table in the document. I'm going to use first table of active sheet, and I want to use the table title for the slide title. Now when it comes to a chart, I'm going to pick something very standard like a 2D, I'm going to group it by column data like this. So now I've created a presentation, I've titled it, subtitled it, applied a transition, added a new slide, imported data from a file, formatted into a chart, added that chart to a slide. The next step is I will save this document using a Save Document action, I'm going to save it to a folder, and I'm going to save it to my Documents folder. And for its name I'm going to call it Sales Report, and then I want the file name to have the same name as the variable, so I'll drag the variable from here up into this field, so now the file will be named Sales Report and the current date.key and replace any existing file. And then, finally, I have over here my little iPad ready to go, and I have it set up with AirDrop, so let's make it easy to get that file over here. I'm going to go begin AirDrop with disk items, and I'll extend out the AirDrop for a couple seconds extra just in case we need it. And what this will do is at the end of the workflow, it will take the file that's created and automatically begin an AirDrop so that I can see it over on my iPad and receive it there. So I would save this, I would place this into the Scripts folder, I would find a location that I like to keep it. And then once it's saved, it becomes part of your script and you can choose it at any time. I'll run the workflow so that you can see it run in action, right from here, let me zoom back out a little bit. And I will run this workflow, it will generate the sales report, grab the data, bring it in, and begin the AirDrop session, and there's the Woodbury School, so now I'll click over to three. You can see, yes, you can see here I'm going to accept this, and it's going to copy it right into Keynote. I can bring it in, I can do editing because the power of iWork I can make it a little bit more colorful. And then I actually have my presentation here and I can begin delivering -- it's going to give me some tips, and get to the next presentation. So there's an example of how you can create a workflow using the power of OS X -- let's go back to one -- so here's how you can create a workflow using the power of the automation technologies in OS X to make the process of creating a chart and a presentation as simple as just going to a menu and selecting that option for you. Okay, so let's go back to slides here. Oh, thank you. So how do we get back over there? You guys do that, magic. Isn't it interesting? I'll bet you most of you didn't realize that stuff was actually in the OS, huh? Right? Okay, so this example uses all of our automation technologies that you have available to you. And remember, they act on your behalf with all of your authority, so you're not limited by what you can do. You don't need a specific app for each step of it, all you need is the functionality that can be exposed to you through Automator. And you have some great apps to work with, like iWork and Photos, the Finder and FileMaker Pro, you can create incredible solutions. And this example with the Automator actions and the whole complete examples available for you today at iworkautomation.com. It's a website that contains individual websites about pages, numbers, and Keynote. I think you'll find it useful in an informative way. Okay, so that's Automating Document Construction. And for our last example we're going to try something new, this will be the first time I'm demoing this, it's the first time anybody has seen this, and you guys are the ones that are going to see it. We're going to talk about setting up iOS devices. Now there could be no doubt that Apple makes the most incredibly powerful and sophisticated and elegant mobile devices there are. They are wonderful tools for the enterprise, they're attractive, they're powerful, they're easy to use. And with our partnership now with IBM we are creating best-of-class applications for data deployment to put the power of the enterprise right at your staff's hands and fingers. And it's really incredible what the tools that are being produced through this collaboration. And we really are happy with what is being developed, but let's talk about for a second, not data deployment, but device deployment. So when it comes to device deployment, there's usually two strategies that you follow. The first is called One to One, and in One to One you have a group of employees that are given a mobile device that is profiled specifically for them. It contains information about them, it is targeted to them, so that no matter where they move within your organization or within geographic location that device stays with them. Now the second strategy for device deployment is called Shared Use, and in this scenario you have a set of devices that are configured generically for your company as the identifier, and then your staff uses those as they need and then passes them to other members of your staff who will use them and then pass them to other members of your staff that gets to use them as well. So shared use, you have a limited number of mobile devices that get used by a large variety of people, as compared to a one-to-one scenario where every employee gets their own mobile device. Now in shared use, a couple scenarios that quite often happen with shared use, are you'll see them used in professional organizations, you'll see them used in service organizations, and you'll also see them used in classrooms as well. Many classrooms use a limited number of mobile devices that they format and set up for different classes and different use throughout the school. So with both Shared Use and One to One, Apple has some great solutions for device management. For One to One, we have our device enrollment program and we have the volume purchase program. That really makes just a simple setup process: you turn on the device and connects to a network, it will set itself up for that employee automatically. When it comes to Shared Use we have an application, it's called Apple Configurator. And Apple Configurator is the application that you use to connect to hardware controllers like this or like carts like this so that you can have it manage hundreds or dozens of devices simultaneously. You connect your computer to the hardware controller and then you run the software to manage that device. On Tuesday we announced a brand-new reimagined version of Apple Configurator with the incredible name of Apple Configurator 2. And this look and feel of this application is very interesting. It now has a very nice graphical flow to it, it's a lot easier to use, and imagine the controls, they're visual, and they've done a really good job at taking the complexity of the processes for setting up devices and made them logical and attractive in appearance to use. Now even this application, as smooth as it is, still requires that you have some basic knowledge of terminology and the intricacies of managing mobile devices. This requires you to understand these various concepts, and for you guys that's not really an issue because you're all award-winning IT professionals, you have your crack staffs and for you complexity, ah, it's no big deal, you can drop into the command line anytime you need. But it just so happens that in large organizations it's quite often a reality that the people who end up managing devices really don't have a great depth of knowledge about IT issues. So we call them, like, accidental administrators. It might be someone who assumes a role or assumes a task because another person has moved to a different part in the company, or organizations might merge together and people assume new responsibilities. So your challenge as an IT professional is to create tools that will solve these people's problems and allow them to set up mobile devices. And, fortunately, new Apple Configurator 2 comes with Automator support. And you as the IT professional can use that Automator support to easily create Automator workflows that will go through the various steps to set up and configure mobile devices and do the various actions and the complexities and the authentications and all of the other interesting things that have to be done in order to set up a device. And these actions will run in order from the top of your workflow down to the bottom of your workflow, they're executed, passing along data as they work. And then it's just a matter of you being able to save this workflow to the Script folder on your computer, and then it will become installed and ready to use by others. So when the workflow gets installed into the Scripts folder, it becomes part of the Script menu, so that anybody that's using that management computer just merely needs to connect devices, go to the Script menu, and then choose one of the setup scripts that you have created through Automator, one of the setup workflows, and then let the process begin and manage the device, either setting it up or configuring it, and everybody is happy. So let's take a look at a specific scenario. I'm going to create a workflow and set up a device for you here, and in this scenario we're going to have a -- we're going to create an Automator workflow that will automatically install required documents onto iPads. So in this scenario let's say we have a school that we're working with, we're going to want to copy across the book report template, the student handbook, the student presentation template, those kind of things. So we're going to create a workflow that will allow administrators to easily transfer documents over to iPads. So let's take a look at that now. There we go, let's launch Automator, and I'm going to zoom into this so you can see a little bit better as we do this. Again, I could choose to create a variety of Automator workflow types, like workflow, a self-running application, a system service, a print plug-in, a folder action, calendar, alarm, image capture plug-in, or a dictation command, but for our purposes we're just going to use a standard workflow file that we can have installed into the Script menu. Over on the left-hand side, I'm going to choose Apple Configurator as the category that I'm going to be drawing my actions from, and then it's just a matter of putting together the various steps. So the first thing you do when you create a workflow that involves setting up mobile devices is to identify which devices you want to work with. So we have two actions for doing that, you have Choose Connected Devices, which would interactively present you a list, or we're going to use the one called Get Connected Devices. I'll drag it into my workflow area, and you can see that in the action view I can choose iPads, iPhones, iPod touches, or Apple TVs, so I can have multiple types of devices connected and filter out the ones that I'm looking for. We're going to choose iPad. Then once I've identified the devices this action will pass a reference to those devices to the next action, which is going to be to copy some documents over. So I have an action here called Copy Documents to Devices, I drag that in. In iOS a document is associated with a specific app, so you have to identify what application is going to be associated with these documents. And there's two ways to do that, you can pick it from the list of installed applications on this computer or you can enter in the iOS app ID, here. We're going to choose pick from the list. I'm going to choose the first one, Adobe Acrobat Reader, and then I'm going to click this to locate the documents. In this case I want PDFs, I'm going to choose the student handbook, yes, and I'm going to choose the student newsletter, okay, good. So I'll select these two, and these two have now been associated with this application and will copy across to the device. Now here's a tip, as administrator you might want to go back into this workflow again sometime, hold down the right key, the Control key, right-click this and go rename, and you can add a comment into the action title. So I'm going to say Install Student Handbook, and then hit the -- oh, handbook -- nothing is going to help me with my spelling, handbook. And now I can collapse that. So I have Get Connected Devices, Install Student Handbook. Let's add this action again. This time I'm going to choose as an application, I'm going to choose the Pages application. I'll go back here, select it again, and I'm going to choose the book report template, and I'll right-click the title bar and go Install Book Report, very good. And then I'm going to add the action one more time over here, and I'm going to choose Keynote as the associated application, choose Add, and then we're going to find the photo slideshow template, choose that, right-click the title bar so I can give myself a name. I go Install Photo Slideshow, very good. So there's my simple workflow, so if those documents are required in all my devices now I have a workflow that can be run by my accidental administrators to automatically copy all the required documents over. I can come back to this workflow later and update it with new documents if I want to. One more thing. I often find it useful that when you're creating workflows for others that you give them a confirmation dialogue at the beginning and end of the workflow process. So I have a script here that does that for me, that adds in confirmation actions, so when the workflow is run you'll get this kind of confirmation action here. Now I have my iPad connected over here, I'm going to copy this across. Let's see if the network holds up today. We're going to actually run this workflow right now. So here's my confirmation, and it's beginning the process of identifying the devices. It's now copying across the first set of handbooks, and now it's copying across the book report, and now it's copying across the Keynote document, and now it's confirmed to me that it is done. So let's go over to number three, number three is showing up over here -- yes, okay, so here's our Woodbury Middle School pad, if I go to the Acrobat Reader you can see that, hey, there's the student handbook, indeed, and here's the student newsletter that they can read, very good. And if I go to Pages, I can import that new book report template into here, I'll tap it, hey, and there's a place you can add your picture as a student. I'm going to choose take photo, reverse the camera, hold it on myself, use the photo, it gets transferred in, crazy man making a book report. And then, finally, I'm going to go to Keynote here and you can see, I'll click Add, and here is our photo slideshow for students using the official Woodbury School template, so I launch that. And then I can add a slide from the template, and as long as we're doing that let's add in a picture here, let's pick this one, double tap, call that Wind Power like that, give that a capital, Power. Spell, Sal, spell. Very good. So there's the template. So anytime that our accidental administrators need to use or configure some devices, they just connect it, they go over to the Script menu, and they go over to the Script menu on the computer, choose Woodbury School, and they can pick from any of the various things that they have set up. Now I want to show you one other thing. I'm going to choose this Rename and Wallpaper workflow and open that up over here for us to examine a little bit. One of the things about any workflow is customization. You might not find all the actions that you're looking for within a particular library of actions, but the advantage is that since you're using a variety of automation technologies, you can use the AppleScript library that the Apple Configurator, Automator actions are based upon to create your own customized scripts that you can insert into the workflow. This particular script here will name the device a default name, like Woodbury School, and then add, append its serial number to it as well, or any other information that you want. So this is what the script for that type of thing would actually look at. Okay, let's go back to our slides. So when you use Automator to set up iOS devices, you can create these kind of workflows that could be used by anybody, even you. They're convenient, easily modifiable because they're modular, and they're used by anybody, even your accidental administrators. And you can also then call into the underlying library structure using either JavaScript or AppleScript to make your own detailed controllers as well. And that, all of this, is documented for you at a third website, called configautomation.com. It's available for you today. So we looked at three different examples today of how automation and OS X can be used to support the enterprise. And especially important to remember that the concept of inclusion is really valuable. When you have iOS and OS X working together, they're unbeatable. When you have a variety of work tools available to you, you can create interesting and powerful solutions. And remember we have these links here for you to get information about all of the examples that I showed you today. We have photosautomation.com, configautomation.com, iworkautomation.com, and for OS X in general we have macosxautomation.com as well. So I want to remind you that if you want more detailed information about Apple Configurator 2, Todd on Tuesday really covered it well in his session, and I urge you to go back and look at the video on that, on his session. In addition, we have some labs that are going on today and tomorrow, and after I'm done here I'm going to go downstairs and hang out at the lab so you can come by and see me and ask any questions about this and we can play with it right there and try these out. So I want to thank you for coming by today and thank you so much for being part of this experience for me. I hope this was valuable for you. Thank you. 